{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was charlotteBeckyAnew.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.15 r1252 (released Apr 12 2017) on Mon Dec 20 18:41:37 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  Urban-Rural Happiness Gradient Theory:\par
\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 (Mechanisms of Urban Malaise) \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}\chdate \par
{}{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  Urbanization, arguably the most dramatic disruption of human habitat, has received surprisingly little attention in terms of subjective wellbeing theory. We know that in the developed world urbanites are less happy, yet we miss theory: what can be the mechanism? This article aims to start filling this gap. We have reviewed happiness urban literature to find out the mechanisms of urbanness registering in human subjective wellbeing. An apparently surprising empirical finding that people are less happy in cities should not be surprising given that happiness theories indicate at least substantial or usually complete happiness disadvantage of cities. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb336 \fi0 {\i0\b0\scaps KEYWORDS: cities, urban living, urbanicity, happiness theories }  \par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 {1}{white}{gray90}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Background\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Cities are not just buildings, urbanism is a way of life ({Wirth} 1938), and our species\rquote  way of life has been disrupted dramatically. In 1800 a mere 1.7% of the world population lived in cities larger than 100k ({Davis} 1955), but urban population will explode from 30% in 1950 to 70% in 2050, or from .75b to 6.75b ({\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://population.un.org/wup" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://population.un.org/wup}}})\endash that\rquote s an addition of 6 billion people to cities over just 100 years. Arguably, this is the most dramatic change of human habitat in our species history. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Why cities exist in the first place? Economics tells us that cities are necessary because humans are not self sufficient (e.g., {O\rquote Sullivan} 2009), that is labor specialization works best at high population level and density, and cities through agglomeration economies increase productivity and ultimately Gross Domestic Product (GDP), an end-in-itself (the ultimate goal of interest) ({O\rquote Sullivan} 2009, {Glaeser} 2011{b}).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Yet we don\rquote t need more GDP, in fact a reasonable argument can be made that we need less ({Skidelsky and Skidelsky} 2012, {Joutsenvirta} 2016, {Kallis et\~al.} 2012, {Kallis} 2011, {Kasser} 2003, {Roberts} 2011, {Roberts and Clement} 2007, {Klein} 2014). And arguably the metric to be maximized is happiness ({Stiglitz et\~al.} 2009, {Diener} 2009, {Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2016). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 There is an apparent \ldblquote urban unhappiness paradox.\rdblquote  People flock to cities\endash 6b over 100 years\endash and yet people in cities are less happy: across the developed world, the least happy places are largest cities: New York City ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016, {Senior} 2006), London ({{Office for National Statistics}} 2011, {Chatterji} 2013) Helsinki ({Morrison} 2015), Bucharest ({Lenzi and Perucca} 2016), Sydney (cited in {Morrison} 2011), and so forth. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 It is especially a puzzle for mainstream economists, who then try to cherry-pick data to argue that people are happier in cities {Glaeser} (2014), {Glaeser} (2011{b}), {Glaeser} (2011{a}), {Glaeser} (2007). Economic theory runs against the urban unhappiness phenomenon as it predicts higher SWB in cities. To economist, money{=}utility (e.g., {Autor} 2010).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} To be sure there are exceptions, e.g., R Easterlin and A Oswald, and by economists we specifically mean mainstream (neoclassical) economists. Still, much of the so called economics of happiness is problematic\endash see {Davies} (2015). Also, while much of economic theory predicts more utility given more money, there are also theories predicting spatial equilibrium ({O\rquote Sullivan} 2009, {Glaeser et\~al.} 2016).}
 There is more money in cities, and so cities must be happier. And since economics also assumes that people are perfectly rational and fully informed, they must rationally flock to the happiest places of all, cities {Glaeser} (2011{b}). A simple point is missed\endash people do not vote with their feet in favor of urbanism\endash substantial portion of city growth is not due to people preference, but actually against it ({Molotch} 1976) People move to places mostly for jobs ({Campbell} 1981). Contemporary companies locate most jobs in metropolitan areas and so people are forced to live there, just like with industrial revolution({Engels} [1845] 1987, {Harvey} 2012, {Molotch} 1976).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Wage slaves are \ldblquote hired slaves instead of block slaves. You have to dread the idea of being unemployed and of being compelled to support your masters\rdblquote  (p. 283 {Goldman et\~al.} 2003). }
 Many others think they chose city consciously, but are actually driven by subconscious city size fetish ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2017).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 It is of paramount importance to study the effect of cities on human condition. The question is long-standing and many have studied it, notably classical US urban sociologists such as Wirth, Burgess, and Park; but also notably German sociologists Simmel and Toennies. This study is a continuation of {<<<}BLIND FOR PEER REVIEW{>>>} \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 This article\rquote s thesis is that an apparently surprising empirical finding of urban unhappiness in the developed world should not be surprising given that happiness theories indicate at least substantial or usually complete happiness disadvantage of cities. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Subjective Wellbeing (SWB) is an umbrella term for various subjective measures of wellbeing, notably positive and negative affects, happiness, and life satisfaction. This article doesn\rquote t concern itself with philosophical or measurement issues\endash for that see for instance {Brulde} (2007)\endash we agree that a hybrid version of happiness theory seems most plausible. Most of the urban SWB research uses life satisfaction measure, which is a global self-evaluation of one\rquote s life as a whole. This measure is rather cognitive than affective\endash respondent evaluates her life as whole globally (everything, including professional, personal, family, community, etc)\endash for discussion see {Campbell et\~al.} (1976), {Diener} (2009). Following usual practice, for simplicity, we use these terms interchangeably: SWB, happiness, and life satisfaction, but specifically we mostly mean life satisfaction as defined above. SWB measure is also at least adequately reliable and valid and considered good enough for public policy making and public administration ({Diener} 2009, {Stiglitz et\~al.} 2009). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Term urban-rural happiness gradient refers to happiness rising from its lowest in largest cities to highest in smallest places {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2011). While it is a gradient with ordinal steps or ranks, it can be also conceptualized as a spectrum between, at one end, large cities, and at the other end, small places. While for simplicity we sometimes use urban-rural dichotomy, we specifically mean end categories of a gradient. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 2  Urbanicity and the Happiness Theories\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 This core section applies happiness theories to urbanicity. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 There are many happiness theories, but the most relevant ones to the urban-rural happiness gradient can be subsumed under three major theories: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
genes/evolution: set point/adaptation (adjustment, \ldblquote hedonic treadmill\rdblquote ) ({Brickman et\~al.} 1978); happiness as a motivator ({Carver and Scheier} 1990) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
comparisons/discrepancies ({Michalos} 1985) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
needs/livability ({Veenhoven and Ehrhardt} 1995) \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 The first two theories predict a major urban disadvantage of cities in terms of happiness. The livability theory does not make direct predictions on the urban-rural happiness gradient, but some urban disadvantage can be inferred from it. In what follows each of the theories is briefly described and applied to urbanicity. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.1  Genes/Evolution: Set Point/Adaptation, and Happiness as Motivator Theories\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Genes and evolution have bad reputation in social science due to eugenics, social Darwinism, and so forth, but the pendulum have swung too far in the other direction and avoidance or denial of evolution is counterproductive ({Pinker} 2003, {Haidt} 2012). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Humans behavior, as that of any animal, is dictated by genes (e.g., {Dawkins} 2006). It is notable that humans share with a chimp more than 95% of genes.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.genome.gov/15515096/2005-release-new-genome-comparison-finds-chimps-humans-very-similar-at-dna-level" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.genome.gov/15515096/2005-release-new-genome-comparison-finds-chimps-humans-very-similar-at-dna-level}}}.}
 And a simple, yet remarkably overlooked point is that neither homo sapiens nor chimps have evolved to live at high population size or density\endash in cities. As hunters-gatherers, when our natural evolutionary habitat has formed for tens of thousands of years, humans have lived in bands of 50-80 people in wilderness {Maryanski and Turner} (1992).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Contemporary largest cities crowd millions of people at densities of about 25,000/sq km (Manhattan), which is 105 people per acre. Imagine about 3 times larger soccer field (2.7 acre) and 22 people on it (2 teams of 11 players)\endash it\rquote s a livable density\endash Manhattan has 281 people on it. Of course it is only manageable thanks to towers and underground (subway, tunnels, etc) facilities. And there are dozens of cities more dense than Manhattan, and it is only getting denser and worse. }
 A modern city of hundreds thousands people is a very recent invention in human evolutionary history\endash there was no such even single place in the world before around 1,000 BC. By 1850 AD only about 2.3% of world population lived in cities larger than 100,000 ({Davis} 1955).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Some argue that many species, e.g., ants and bees, thrive at high densities, but clearly humans are unlike ants or bees. By one estimate\endash we\rquote re 90% chimp and only 10% bee ({Haidt} 2012). Small population level and density in natural setting is humans\rquote  evolutionary home, not high population size and density in artificial setting {Pretty} (2012). Humans have evolved to live sparsely in a natural environment, not densely in a mixture of asphalt, concrete, steel, and glass.. To summarize, the key point is that it is not in human nature to live in a city. {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} A side point in terms of genes is about heritability of happiness. Genes also matter more than anything else for one\rquote s happiness. About 50 percent of happiness, intelligence, personality, etc, is determined by genes ({Dawkins} 2006, {Krueger et\~al.} 2008, {Stangor and Walinga} 2010, {Stoolmiller} 1999, {Plomin et\~al.} 1994, {Bartels} 2015). Hence of all the influences on our happiness level, genes have the greatest effect, as what is left for all the other influences is only the other 50%.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Genes/evolution are a foundation of two closely related happiness theories: set point/adaptation (adjustment, \ldblquote hedonic treadmill\rdblquote ) ({Brickman et\~al.} 1978), and happiness as a motivator theory ({Carver and Scheier} 1990). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Set point/adaptation theory states that life events happen, even dramatic ones such as loosing a limb or winning millions in a lottery, but humans have an extraordinary ability to adapt to just about anything, and so their happiness over time comes back to status quo, a set-point ({Brickman et\~al.} 1978).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Also see homeostasis, e.g., ch4 by Cummins in {Brul{\'e9} and Suter} (2019): SWB, like any physiological system requires homeostasis, a stable narrow range to function properly about 70-90 on 0-100 scale. Still some people are chronically low say due to arthisis or caring for an elderly. And some over-time change is possible. Set-point is not rigidly set. See more on Brickman: {Brickman et\~al.} (1987). }
 A useful closely related term is \ldblquote hedonic treadmill\rdblquote \endash we chase some goals, some greater happiness, but like on a treadmill, we never get anywhere, being stuck always at the same place despite running. {Durkheim} ([1895] 1950) put it well: \ldblquote the more one has, the more one wants, since satisfactions received only stimulate instead of filling needs.\rdblquote  Human adaptation is astonishing indeed: winning millions in a lottery and losing limbs has little if any effect on happiness. Astonishingly, about half of world population lives on less than 6$ per day and they somehow manage and don\rquote t despair\endash humans can adapt to just about anything.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} See {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2018/10/17/nearly-half-the-world-lives-on-less-than-550-a-day" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2018/10/17/nearly-half-the-world-lives-on-less-than-550-a-day}}}. And yet the happiness distributions do differ, for instance, those of Denmark and Togo are almost non-overlapping\endash society can make a huge difference ({Diener} 2015). We also know that the adaptation is not full, e.g., people do not adapt fully to unemployment ({Lucas et\~al.} 2004), unexpected death of a child (cited in {Headey} 2008), etc. And see the next section per livability theory.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 The city allure is overrated\endash people simply adapt to urban amenities.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn}  For jobs, it is often necessary to be in a city or close to it (suburb), but one should be aware that she is likely to adapt to city amenities, and hence, she should discount the expected happiness from her decision making to live in a city. Furthermore, enjoyment of many of urban amenities is expensive and time consuming\endash one is likely to end up not enjoying the amenities. It is another explanation for the apparent paradox that cities grow and yet are unhappy\endash people think they will enjoy more amenities (opera houses, top universities, etc) than they actually do, and they don\rquote t take into account the disamenities such as high prices and pollutions. Again it is expected v experienced utility ({Kahneman et\~al.} 1997, {Schkade and Kahneman} 1998, {Kahneman} 2000, {Kahneman and Krueger} 2006). Allure of moving to a city is similar allure of moving to California\endash many Americans would like to live there and many actually move. They have unrealistic ideas about happy lifestyle, but end up with unhappy congestion, pollution, and high prices ({Schkade and Kahneman} 1998).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 People don\rquote t adapt to urban disamenities\endash again city living is not in human nature. And one does not adapt to multiple city stressors such as air, noise, and light pollutions, skyrocketing housing prices, etc, as evidenced by poor mental health of urbanites ({Lederbogen et\~al.} 2011, {Adli et\~al.} 2017).}
 People are often attracted to city not just by jobs, but also by its amenities\endash opera houses, museums, etc ({Campbell} 1981). Arguably expected urban happiness is higher than experienced urban happiness ({Kahneman et\~al.} 1997, {Schkade and Kahneman} 1998, {Kahneman} 2000, {Kahneman and Krueger} 2006), and it may help to explain the apparent paradox of urbanization and urban unhappiness at the same time.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 But wouldn\rquote t people by the same mechanism adapt to smaller places as well? Again, natural environment is a natural human habitat and it has consistently positive effect on human condition {Pretty} (2012). And why pay more for city life, and have less time? Urbanites work longer hours ({Rosenthal and Strange} 2002, 2003, 2008)\endash to pay for skyrocketing urban crowded housing and other \ldblquote urban amenities,\rdblquote  while free time is critical for human flourishing\endash one of the top regrets of the dying is \ldblquote I wish I hadn\rquote t worked so hard\rdblquote  ({Ware} 2012). People would arguably stayed rural if they could, but they were forced into metropolitan areas (cities and its suburbs) by jobs ({Campbell} 1981, {Engels} [1845] 1987, {Harvey} 2012, {Molotch} 1976). {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Contemporary Americans prefer suburban settings, close to city so that they have access to jobs and urban amenities, and yet outside of central city so they have at least some nature, and less of urban disamenities {Fuguitt and Zuiches} (1975), {Fuguitt and Brown} (1990).{ More recent data are at {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://today.yougov.com/news/2012/07/05/suburban-dream-suburbs-are-most-popular-place-live/" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://today.yougov.com/news/2012/07/05/suburban-dream-suburbs-are-most-popular-place-live/}}}.} And yet suburbs are not a viable solution ({Duany et\~al.} 2001) for a society\endash rather, it was \ldblquote smart for one, but dumb for all\rdblquote \endash if few suburbanized, they\rquote d probably came close to the best of the two worlds\endash city amenities close by, but without city disamenities, and plenty of nature. But predictably what happened instead is massive suburbanization. And suburbs are morphing into city-like creatures with less nature, higher prices, more congestion, pollution, etc {Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2015). }
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Happiness as a motivator is a critical and largely overlooked theory ({Carver and Scheier} 1990). Like set-point/adaptation theories, it also closely derives from genes/evolution. SWB merely signals that a task at hand has been accomplished, then happiness dissipates, so that the signal is that a person should move to another task. If a person was perfectly happy all the time, she would not accomplish much. Happiness is simply a reward for accomplishing a task. Happiness is necessary to motivate a person to accomplish the task, and then the happiness must dissipate, so that a person is motivated to move to another task.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn}  Also as in an equation: SWB{=}achievement/experience{\u8722?}expectations/aspirations, i.e., the higher the expectations or aspirations, the lower the SWB. {Carver} (2003) argues similarly: if rate of progress is below the reference rate: negative affect; if above: positive affect also if doing well: become satisfied, comfortable, possibly complacent until you fall below the reference line and it goes over again ({Carver} 2003). Homo sapiens is not designed by genes to be happy but to survive and reproduce ({Euba} 2019). {Carver} (2003) discusses various models: cruise control: going over the hill gets tough, increase velocity and fuel use, reach plateau; and going down the hill: decrease fuel coasting: positive affect leads to coasting opportunistic shifting: positive feelings promote play\endash also see {Marcuse} (2015, 2013). }
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 A problem in the modern world, and especially in a city, is that majority find themselves on a hamster wheel accomplishing tasks until one lies on a deathbed and wishes one didn\rquote t work so hard ({Ware} 2012). There are many more tasks in the city and one cannot ever accomplish all of them, because there are always more ({Rosenthal and Strange} 2002, 2003, 2008). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Furthermore, ever-increasing complexity and abundance of choices, exemplified in cities, may lead to paralysis as opposed to liberation\endash for instance, people offered many choices become overloaded and confused as opposed to liberated and thrilled ({Schwartz} 2004). On the other hand, it is not so that people in smaller areas are disengaged or withdrawn, rather they are more sane and at peace ({Thoreau} 1995 [1854], {Nietzsche} 1896). People in big cities are cognitively overloaded. They are not at peace, always chasing something, their gaze is disconnected from present and focused on some future task or goal, or they are distracted, sometimes disoriented ({Simmel} 1903). Urbanism has a negative effect on human mental health in general ({Adli et\~al.} 2017). Cities stimulate and overstimulate human nervous system ({Simmel} 1903, {Lederbogen et\~al.} 2011)\endash one feels energetic, possibly hectic in the city\endash urban environment gives one quick short-lived excitement boosts from its towers, neons, shopping windows, etc ({Pile et\~al.} 1999, {Pile} 2005{b}, 2005{a}, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2017). An urbanite has more of just about everything than a rural person, but also seem to want even more\endash \ldblquote the more one has, the more one wants, since satisfactions received only stimulate instead of filling needs\rdblquote  ({Durkheim} [1895] 1950). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 An urbanite has a fuller, more experiential and more challenging life and more utility (money or consumption) ({Florida} 2008, {Glaeser} 2011{b}). The urban challenging environment can potentially build a better fuller human being. But such an opportunity largely is limited to upper-middle and upper classes. An urbanite makes more money, but also cost of living is higher. An urbanite has a higher position in society, but hierarchies are taller, and so forth.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Urbanites find life frustrating and they think they weren\rquote t able to achieve their full share of happiness ({Campbell} 1981). Urbanites either have higher aspirations or lower achievement or both. But given extreme opportunity found in cities ({T{\'f6}nnies} [1887] 2002, {Milgram} 1970, {Fischer} 1995, {Glaeser} 2011{b}, {O\rquote Sullivan} 2009), it is rather aspirations. The end result is often cognitive overload and poor mental health ({Simmel} 1903, {Lederbogen et\~al.} 2011, {Adli et\~al.} 2017). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 A problem with the city is that it is better to be a big fish in a small pond than a small fish in a big pond\endash reference line is higher in city {Luttmer} (2005), {Firebaugh and Schroeder} (2009), which brings us to comparisons in next section.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.2  Comparison/Discrepancies: Multiple Discrepancies Theory (MDT)\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Multiple Discrepancy Theory (MDT) ({Michalos} 1985) states that happiness is a function of: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 1.\tab
social comparison, e.g., co-workers, high school friends, relatives \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 2.\tab
comparison to various standards, e.g., clothes, car expected in a given profession \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 3.\tab
time: your SWB now is determined by how you were doing in the past and what you expect in the future \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 Per MDT, city is a negative influence on happiness: there is relative deprivation through upward comparisons and other mechanisms. Cities bestow great deal of freedom on a person: \ldblquote city air if free\rdblquote  {T{\'f6}nnies} ([1887] 2002). But it is usually forgotten that cities also enslave through urban finish and manners, etiquette, visual recognition, etc {Marcuse} (2015), {Freud et\~al.} (1930), {Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2015). City intensifies conspicuous consumption (e.g., {White and White} 1977, p. 169). City intensifies vice, crime, indifference, strangeness, aversion, and repulsion ({Bettencourt and West} 2010, {Simmel} 1903, {Wirth} 1938, {Thrift} 2005, {Amin} 2006, {Veblen} 2005{b}, {Park} 1915, {Park et\~al.} [1925] 1984).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 One mechanism is built environment\endash corporate buildings, shops, advertisements\endash they signal success is wealth and material possessions ({Joye et\~al.} 2020). One reason we move to a metropolis such as London, Shanghai, or New York is simply because we want to demonstrate that we are better than others ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2017)\endash dwellers of big cities feel consistently more proud than dwellers of smaller locations ({Balducci and Checchi} 2009, {Morrison} 2016, {Fuller} 2017, {Hanson} 2015).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Urban way of life increases chances, but not necessarily improves outcomes. City stimulates but instead of fulfilling, it increases wants and needs (\ldblquote hedonic treadmill\rdblquote ). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Visual and social comparisons are more likely in urban areas as there are more people and more stimuli. Likewise, use of social media is higher in urban areas ({Perrin} 2015), and both visual and social comparisons in real life and on social media can make people seek status through money, material possessions, and conspicuous consumption ({Taylor and Strutton} 2016, {Joye et\~al.} 2020). This is also arguably why thinkers such as Nietzsche and Thoreau escaped urban crowds that are not only dull, energy-sucking, and uncreative, but also mired in endless petty competition and comparisons ({Nietzsche and Parkes} 2005, {Tesson} 2013, {Thoreau} 1995 [1854]).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Humans are usually unwilling and unable to make absolute judgments, rather they constantly draw comparisons from their environment ({Frey et\~al.} 2008). Higher aspirations reduce wellbeing ({Frey et\~al.} 2008). And cities induce higher aspirations ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2015, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2017). Cities are also consumerist and materialistic\endash e.g., urbanites try to classify others in terms of visible attributes such as dress ({Wilson} 1985). A key finding is that people tend to look upward, not downward, when making comparisons ({Frey et\~al.} 2008). Wealthier people impose negative external effect on poorer people but not vice versa ({Frey and Stutzer} 2002). Hence, cities induce positional concerns as income ladders are tallest in cities. {Campbell et\~al.} (1976) makes an important point that aspirations do adjust to reality, and there is no other place with more opportunity, inequality, and hierarchy than a city ({T{\'f6}nnies} [1887] 2002, {Milgram} 1970, {Fischer} 1995, {Glaeser} 2011{b}, {O\rquote Sullivan} 2009, {Campbell} 1981). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 A notable comparison that people make is against neighbors: do I keep up with Joneses? We tend to compare to people in our geographic or social proximity\endash and there are more such people by definition in a city. \ldblquote A house may be large or small; as long as the neighboring houses are likewise small, it satisfies all social requirements for a residence. But let there arise next to the little house a palace, and the little house shrinks to a hut.\rdblquote (Marx quoted in {Dittmann and Goebel} 2010). There are many mansions in urban areas, and many wealthy people, so a typical urbanite, by comparison, is poor and insignificant.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Notably, all these comparisons\endash against others, standards, and our own past, result in consumption arms race\endash people want to out-compete others and demonstrate being better than others\endash but such race almost never can be won, end one ends up disappointed and unhappy ({Frank} 2004, 2005, 2012). People compare themselves with others who are richer ({Frey and Stutzer} 2002, {Frey et\~al.} 2008) and therefore feel poorer. Those living in rural areas have fewer comparisons to make. Neighbors act as negatives {Luttmer} (2005), {Firebaugh and Schroeder} (2009)\endash rich neighbors make us unhappy\endash the denser the area, everything else equal, the more neighbors and more negatives\endash and again, people look upwards when making comparisons: wealthier people impose negative external effect on poorer people but not vice versa ({Frey and Stutzer} 2002). \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 2.3  Livability Theory\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Livability theory ({Veenhoven} 2014, 2000) is also based on evolution/genes. Humans, as all animals, have innate needs\endash if those needs are satisfied, happiness follows. Human needs include those on Maslow hierarchy of needs in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmaslow \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}: physiological needs like water, food and sleep; social needs: e.g., contact with other living organisms (biophilia, social capital, nature, etc); and finally the highest human need, self-actualization. Then there are attributes of places (environment or ecology)\endash if it is \ldblquote livable,\rdblquote  then happiness follows. Florida conceptualized this as a place pyramid in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMpyramid \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}. \par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300  {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{centering\} ... \\end\{centering\}}]\par
}}{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb480 \fi300  {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{centering\} ... \\end\{centering\}}]\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 It is necessary to increase city disamenities to have a sufficient population size as per central place theory (e.g., {O\rquote Sullivan} 2009, p. 86) to produce city amenities such as opera houses ({Molotch} 1976)..{Freud provides a wonderful discussion on civilization and its discontents ({Freud et\~al.} 1930).} Indicators of Quality Of Life (QOL) are high in urban areas, but SWB is higher in less populated areas ( {Sirgy} 2002, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2019, {Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2013). Then people are also arguably attracted to cities because of high QOL (opera houses, etc), but end up with lower happiness than elsewhere.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} E.g., arguably most popular urban QOL index Mercer ranks Vienna #1 in the world. Opera house, symphony, museums, etc, are a distinctive feature of Vienna. But do most residents actually use these amenities on regular basis? Or are they just proud they are around ({Balducci and Checchi} 2009, {Morrison} 2016)?}
 The most conspicuous consumption or waste{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} \ldblquote Conspicuous consumption\rdblquote  and \ldblquote waste\rdblquote  are used interchangeably by {Veblen} (2005{a}, 2005{b})\endash the key feature of conspicuousness is waste\endash wasting something so that it can be shown that one is rich enough to do so.}
 tends to take place in metropolitan areas (cities and their extension, suburbs)\endash for striking examples of urban conspicuousness see {Frank} (2012).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Human flourishing does not require urban amenities, such as large opera houses. They are neither necessary nor sufficient for human flourishing. Such amenities may help with the very highest need, self-actualization, but more basic needs (such as physiological) are endangered in city. Humans do have a fundamental need for freedom from air, noise, and light pollutions exemplified in cities. Social relations, an important human need, are endangered, in turmoil, of lower quality, and more distrustful in a city ({Wirth} 1938, {Thrift} 2005, {Amin} 2006, {Simmel} 1903, {Milgram} 1970){\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} {Fischer} (1995) presents an alternative in his sub-cultural theory.}
 Humans also have a fundamental need for adequate living space without crowding and freedom from consistent stress. High density such as that in New York City or Hong Kong usually implies some degree of crowding for most people, which is not livable. For instance, New York City offers 250 sq ft apartments\endash given that a couple lives there with one child\endash it is less than 100 sq feet per person. There are even so called \ldblquote cubbyholes\rdblquote  at striking 40 square feet ({Charlesworth} 2014, {Yoneda} 2012, {Weichselbaum} 2013, {Velsey} 2016, {Stevenson and Wu} 2019). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Importantly, there are needs and wants (desires)\endash and much of urban glitz and attraction is about desires ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2017, {Campbell} 1981). In a way one\rquote s happiness in a city is delusional as in Nozick\rquote s experience machine (discussed in {Brulde} 2007). Modern city does not significantly help to satisfy human needs in developed countries. Human needs are already satisfied. If anything it was industrial revolution that produced city that helped to satisfy human needs such as shelter and clothing.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 An important distinctive feature of city life is that of specialization\endash as opposed to rural area, one has to deeply specialize in the city. Human density forces differentiation and specialization as already observed by Darwin and Durkheim ( {Wirth} 1938, p. 15). City not only enables, but what is often overlooked, forces differentiation and specialization, because it\rquote s the only way that high density can be supported{ (e.g., {Burgess} 1926). } And humans, as most other animals, have not evolved to spend abbot half of their wake time performing a repetitive task\endash it is against human nature: specialization alienates us from other humans and our nature ({Marx} 1844, [1867] 2010)\endash indeed one ideally should be able to \ldblquote to do one thing today and another tomorrow, to hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticize after dinner\rdblquote  ( {Marx and Engels} [1845] 1965). \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  Conclusion And Discussion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We have reviewed urban and happiness literatures to find out the mechanisms of urbanness registering in human subjective wellbeing. The contribution of this study is to bring together happiness theories to explain urban-rural happiness gradient. An apparently surprising empirical finding that people are less happy in cities should not be surprising given that happiness theories indicate at least substantial or usually complete happiness disadvantage of cities.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 A new theoretical approach to the relationship between urbanicity and subjective wellbeing should fully take into account the three major happiness theories. Mechanisms or pathways between urbanicity and SWB specifically follow from the three happiness theories: 1) genes/evolution: set point/adaptation and happiness as a motivator, 2) comparisons/discrepancies, and 3) needs/livability.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 As argued earlier, urbanization is the most dramatic and disruptive change of habitat in our species history. It has a massive scale of 6 billion people urbanizing in just one century. The study of the effect of urbanization on human condition requires theory.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 This is only the first study to bring the theoretical background together. And it is only from perspective of happiness theories. Future research should also attempt to incorporate theories from other disciplines. Notably neuroscience is beginning to form urban theory after the pioneering study of {Lederbogen et\~al.} (2011), calling for \ldblquote neuro-urbanism\rdblquote {Adli et\~al.} (2017), {Pykett et\~al.} (2020). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 The relationship of urbanism and human flourishing can have implications for development in general. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 A convincing case for degrowth of GDP has been made ({Kallis} 2011, {Kallis et\~al.} 2012). Cities are a growth machine ({Molotch} 1976). The present article, based on happiness theories, makes a case for degrowth of cities. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Urban economists view cities as a highly desirable development ({O\rquote Sullivan} 2009, {Glaeser} 2011{b}). To (mainstream) economist, the end-in-itself or the final outcome of interest is income and consumption, not happiness ({Autor} 2010). And accordingly economists advise people to maximize income and consumption, not happiness ({Becker and Rayo} 2008).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 If one cares only about money, cities are a desirable development, because the more people are crowded together (agglomeration and size economies), the more productivity, and the higher the GDP. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Except that we do not need to grow GDP anymore\endash we need to degrow it ({Kallis} 2011, {Kallis et\~al.} 2012, {Klein} 2014). If GDP is not to be maximized anymore, but SWB, then we should also degrow cities, because people are less happy there. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Cities are the most environmentally friendly way of housing billions of people ({Meyer} 2013)\endash we cannot degrow cities substantially before we degrow human population. Hence, the first problem is over-population, not over-urbanization. Proper discussion of over-population is beyond the scope of this happiness urban-rural gradient theory article. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Yet cities can be degrown to some degree if production and consumprion (GDP) are degrown. Capitalism may have been needed to generate enough wealth (and rebuilt after the 2nd World War), and so cities were needed to facilitate specialization and agglomeration. But now we need to produce and consume less for ecological reasons (and other reasons, notably most of consumption in developed countries is plain useless and waste). Hence, we also need cities less.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \fi300 Last, but not least, the article refers to the developed world; in poorest countries, cities actually may help satisfy human needs, and accordingly may increase SWB. In poorest countries, life is often unbearable outside of cities lacking basic necessities such as healthcare and clean water. Hence, at very early stages of economic development, some urbanization may be useful. \par
{\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl477\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \sb60 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Adli, M., M.\~Berger, E.-L. Brakemeier, L.\~Engel, J.\~Fingerhut, A.\~Gomez-Carrillo, R.\~Hehl, A.\~Heinz, J.\~Mayer, N.\~Mehran, et\~al.} (2017): \ldblquote Neurourbanism: towards a new discipline,\rdblquote  {\i The Lancet Psychiatry}, 4, 183\endash 185.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Amin, A.} (2006): \ldblquote The good city,\rdblquote  {\i Urban studies}, 43, 1009\endash 1023.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Autor, D.} (2010): \ldblquote Lecture 3: Axioms of Consumer Preference and the Theory of Choice,\rdblquote  {\i MIT Open Course Ware}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Balducci, A. and D.\~Checchi} (2009): \ldblquote Happiness and Quality of City Life: The Case of Milan, the Richest Italian City.\rdblquote  {\i International Planning Studies}, 14, 25\endash 64.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bartels, M.} (2015): \ldblquote Genetics of wellbeing and its components satisfaction with life, happiness, and quality of life: A review and meta-analysis of heritability studies,\rdblquote  {\i Behavior genetics}, 45, 137\endash 156.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Becker, G. and L.\~Rayo} (2008): \ldblquote Comment on \rquote Economic Growth and Subjective Well-Being: Reassessing the Easterlin Paradox\rquote  by Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers,\rdblquote  {\i Brookings Papers on Economic Activity}, 88\endash 95.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Berry, B.\~J. and A.\~Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2011): \ldblquote An Urban-Rural Happiness Gradient,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Geography}, 32, 871\endash 883.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bettencourt, L. and G.\~West} (2010): \ldblquote A unified theory of urban living,\rdblquote  {\i Nature}, 467, 912\endash 913.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brickman, P., A.\~Abbey, and J.\~L. Halman} (1987): {\i Commitment, conflict, and caring}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brickman, P., D.\~Coates, and R.\~Janoff-Buman} (1978): \ldblquote Lottery winners and accident victims: Is happiness relative?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Personality and Social Psychology}, 36, 917\endash 927.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brulde, B.} (2007): \ldblquote Happiness theories of the good life,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Happiness Studies}, 8, 15\endash 49.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brul{\'e9}, G. and C.\~Suter} (2019): {\i Wealth (s) and Subjective Well-being}, vol. Social Indicators Research Series 76, Springer.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Burgess, E.\~W.} (1926): {\i The urban community: selected papers from the proceedings of the American Sociological Society, 1925}, vol.\~4, The University of Chicago press, Chicago IL.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Campbell, A.} (1981): {\i The sense of well-being in America: Recent patterns and trends}, McGraw-Hill Companies.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Campbell, A., P.\~E. Converse, and W.\~L. Rodgers} (1976): {\i The quality of American life: perceptions, evaluations, and satisfactions}, Russell Sage Foundation, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Carver, C.} (2003): \ldblquote Pleasure as a sign you can attend to something else: Placing positive feelings within a general model of affect,\rdblquote  {\i Cognition and Emotion}, 17, 241\endash 261.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Carver, C.\~S. and M.\~F. Scheier} (1990): \ldblquote Origins and functions of positive and negative affect: a control-process view.\rdblquote  {\i Psychological review}, 97, 19.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Charlesworth, M.} (2014): \ldblquote Couple squeezes into one of Manhattan\rquote s tiniest apartments,\rdblquote  {\i ABC7NY}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Chatterji, A.} (2013): \ldblquote London is the Unhappiest Place to Live in Britain,\rdblquote  {\i International Business Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Davies, W.} (2015): {\i The Happiness Industry: How the Government and Big Business Sold us Well-Being}, Verso Books.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Davis, K.} (1955): \ldblquote The origin and growth of urbanization in the world,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 429\endash 437.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dawkins, R.} (2006): {\i The selfish gene}, Oxford university press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Diener, E.} (2009): {\i Well-being for public policy}, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2015): \ldblquote Advances in the Science of Subjective Well-Being,\rdblquote  {\i 2015 ISQOLS Keynote}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dittmann, J. and J.\~Goebel} (2010): \ldblquote {Your House, Your Car, Your Education: The Socioeconomic Situation of the Neighborhood and its Impact on Life Satisfaction in Germany},\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 1\endash 17.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Duany, A., E.\~Plater-Zyberk, and J.\~Speck} (2001): {\i Suburban nation: The rise of sprawl and the decline of the American dream}, North Point Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Durkheim, E.} ([1895] 1950): {\i The Rules of Sociological Method}, The Free Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Engels, F.} ([1845] 1987): {\i The condition of the working class in England}, Penguin, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Euba, R.} (2019): \ldblquote Humans aren\rquote t designed to be happy,\rdblquote  {\i medicalxpress}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Firebaugh, G. and M.\~B. Schroeder} (2009): \ldblquote Does Your Neighbor\rquote s Income Affect Your Happiness?\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 115, 805\endash 831.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fischer, C.\~S.} (1995): \ldblquote The subcultural theory of urbanism: A twentieth-year assessment,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 543\endash 577.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Florida, R.} (2008): {\i Who\rquote s your city?}, Basic Books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frank, R.} (2012): {\i The Darwin economy: Liberty, competition, and the common good}, Princeton University Press, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frank, R.\~H.} (2004): \ldblquote How not to buy happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Daedalus}, 133, 69\endash 79.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2005): \ldblquote Does Absolute Income Matter,\rdblquote  in {\i Economics and Happiness}, ed. by L.\~Bruni and P.\~L. Porta, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Freud, S., J.\~Riviere, and J.\~Strachey} (1930): {\i Civilization and its discontents}, Hogarth Press London.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frey, B.\~S. and A.\~Stutzer} (2002): \ldblquote What Can Economists Learn from Happiness Research?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Economic Literature}, 40, 402\endash 435.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frey, B.\~S. et\~al.} (2008): \ldblquote Happiness: A revolution in economics,\rdblquote  {\i MIT Press Books}, 1.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fuguitt, G.\~V. and D.\~L. Brown} (1990): \ldblquote Residential Preferences and Population Redistribution,\rdblquote  {\i Demography}, 27, 589\endash 600.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fuguitt, G.\~V. and J.\~J. Zuiches} (1975): \ldblquote Residential Preferences and Population Distribution,\rdblquote  {\i Demography}, 12, 491\endash 504.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fuller, T.} (2017): \ldblquote California\rquote s Far North Deplores Tyranny of the Urban Majority,\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.} (2011{{a}}): \ldblquote Cities, productivity, and quality of life,\rdblquote  {\i Science}, 333, 592\endash 594.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2011{{b}}): {\i Triumph of the City: How Our Greatest Invention Makes Us Richer, Smarter, Greener, Healthier, and Happier}, Penguin Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2014): \ldblquote Happiness is overrated,\rdblquote  {\i Boston Globe}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L.} (2007): \ldblquote The economics approach to cities,\rdblquote  Tech. rep., Harvard.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L., J.\~D. Gottlieb, and O.\~Ziv} (2016): \ldblquote Unhappy Cities,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Labor Economics}, 34, S129\endash S182.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Goldman, E., C.\~Falk, B.\~Pateman, and J.\~M. Moran} (2003): {\i Emma Goldman: Made for America, 1890-1901}, vol.\~1, Univ of California Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Haidt, J.} (2012): {\i The righteous mind: Why good people are divided by politics and religion}, Vintage.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hanson, V.\~D.} (2015): \ldblquote The Oldest Divide. With roots dating back to our Founding, America\rquote s urban-rural split is wider than ever.\rdblquote  {\i City Journal}, Autumn 2015.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Harvey, D.} (2012): {\i Rebel cities: From the right to the city to the urban revolution}, Verso Books.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Headey, B.} (2008): \ldblquote Life goals matter to happiness: A revision of set-point theory,\rdblquote  {\i Social indicators research}, 86, 213\endash 231.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Joutsenvirta, M.} (2016): \ldblquote A practice approach to the institutionalization of economic degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 128, 23\endash 32.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Joye, Y., J.\~W. Bolderdijk, M.\~A. K{\'f6}ster, and P.\~K. Piff} (2020): \ldblquote A diminishment of desire: Exposure to nature relative to urban environments dampens materialism,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Forestry & Urban Greening}, 54, 126783.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kahneman, D.} (2000): \ldblquote Experienced Utility and Objective Happiness: A Moment-Based Approach,\rdblquote  in {\i Choices, Values and Frames}, ed. by D.\~Kahneman and A.\~Tversky, Cambridge University Press and the Russell Sage Foundation, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kahneman, D. and A.\~B. Krueger} (2006): \ldblquote Developments in the measurement of subjective well-being,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Economic Perspectives}, 22, 3\endash 24.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kahneman, D., P.\~P. Wakker, and R.\~Sarin} (1997): \ldblquote Back to Bentham? {E}xplorations of Experienced Utility,\rdblquote  {\i The Quarterly Journal of Economics}, 112, 375\endash 405.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G.} (2011): \ldblquote In defence of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 70, 873\endash 880.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G., C.\~Kerschner, and J.\~Martinez-Alier} (2012): \ldblquote The economics of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 84, 172\endash 180.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kasser, T.} (2003): {\i The high price of materialism}, MIT press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Klein, N.} (2014): {\i This changes everything: capitalism vs. the climate}, Simon and Schuster, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Krueger, R.\~F., S.\~South, W.\~Johnson, and W.\~Iacono} (2008): \ldblquote The heritability of personality is not always 50%: Gene-environment interactions and correlations between personality and parenting,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality}, 76, 1485\endash 1522.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lederbogen, F., P.\~Kirsch, L.\~Haddad, F.\~Streit, H.\~Tost, P.\~Schuch, S.\~Wust, J.\~C. Pruessner, M.\~Rietschel, M.\~Deuschle, and A.\~{Meyer-Lindenberg}} (2011): \ldblquote City living and urban upbringing affect neural social stress processing in humans,\rdblquote  {\i Nature}, 474.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lenzi, C. and G.\~Perucca} (2016): \ldblquote The Easterlin paradox and the urban-rural divide in life satisfaction: Evidence from Romania,\rdblquote  {\i Unpublished; {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://www.grupposervizioambiente.it" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://www.grupposervizioambiente.it}}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lucas, R.\~E., A.\~E. Clark, Y.\~Georgellis, and E.\~Diener} (2004): \ldblquote Unemployment alters the set point for life satisfaction,\rdblquote  {\i Psychological science}, 15, 8\endash 13.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Luttmer, E. F.\~P.} (2005): \ldblquote Neighbors as Negatives: Relative Earnings and Well-Being,\rdblquote  {\i Quarterly Journal of Economics}, 120, 963\endash 02.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Marcuse, H.} (2013): {\i One-dimensional man: Studies in the ideology of advanced industrial society}, Routledge.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2015): {\i Eros and civilization: A philosophical inquiry into Freud}, Boston MA: Beacon Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Marx, K.} (1844): \ldblquote Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844. Human Requirements and Division of Labour Under the Rule of Private Property,\rdblquote  {\i www.marxists.org}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  ([1867] 2010): {\i Capital, vol. 1}, http://www.marxists.org.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Marx, K. and F.\~Engels} ([1845] 1965): \ldblquote The German Ideology (1845),\rdblquote  .\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Maryanski, A. and J.\~H. Turner} (1992): {\i The social cage: Human nature and the evolution of society}, Stanford University Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Maslow, A.} ([1954] 1987): {\i {Motivation and personality}}, Longman, 3 ed.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Meyer, W.\~B.} (2013): {\i The Environmental Advantages of Cities: Countering Commonsense Antiurbanism}, MIT Press, Cambridge MA.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Michalos, A.} (1985): \ldblquote Multiple discrepancies theory (MDT),\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 16, 347\endash 413.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Milgram, S.} (1970): \ldblquote The experience of living in cities,\rdblquote  {\i Science}, 167, 1461\endash 1468.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Molotch, H.} (1976): \ldblquote The city as a growth machine: Toward a political economy of place,\rdblquote  {\i American journal of sociology}, 82, 309\endash 332.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, P.} (2015): \ldblquote Capturing effects of cities on subjective wellbeing,\rdblquote  {\i European Regional Science Association Conference, Lisbon}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, P.\~S.} (2011): \ldblquote Local expressions of subjective well-being: The New Zealand experience,\rdblquote  {\i Regional studies}, 45, 1039\endash 1058.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2016): \ldblquote Pride in the city,\rdblquote  {\i REGION}, 3, 103\endash 124.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Nietzsche, F.\~W.} (1896): {\i Thus spake Zarathustra: a book for all and none}, MacMillan and Company, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Nietzsche, F.\~W. and G.\~Parkes} (2005): {\i Thus spoke Zarathustra: A book for everyone and nobody}, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Office for National Statistics}} (2011): \ldblquote Analysis of Experimental Subjective Well-being Data from the Annual Population Survey,\rdblquote  {\i The National Archives}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A.} (2013): \ldblquote City Life: Rankings (Livability) Versus Perceptions (Satisfaction),\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 110, 433\endash 451.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2015): {\i Happiness and Place. Why Life is Better Outside of the City.}, Palgrave Macmillan, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2016): \ldblquote Happiness Research for Public Policy and Administration,\rdblquote  {\i Transforming Government: People, Process and Policy}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and J.\~M. Mazelis} (2016): \ldblquote Urbanism and Happiness: A Test of Wirth\rquote s Theory on Urban Life,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Studies}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and R.\~R. Valente} (2017): \ldblquote The Unconscious Size Fetish: Glorification and Desire of the City,\rdblquote  in {\i Psychoanalysis and the GlObal}, ed. by I.\~Kapoor, University of Nebraska Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2019): \ldblquote Livability and subjective well-being across European cities,\rdblquote  {\i Applied Research in Quality of Life}, 14, 197\endash 220.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps O\rquote Sullivan, A.} (2009): {\i Urban economics}, McGraw-Hill.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Park, R.\~E.} (1915): \ldblquote The city: Suggestions for the investigation of human behavior in the city environment,\rdblquote  {\i The American Journal of Sociology}, 20, 577\endash 612.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Park, R.\~E., E.\~W. Burgess, and R.\~D. Mac\~Kenzie} ([1925] 1984): {\i The city}, University of Chicago Press, Chicago IL.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Perrin, A.} (2015): \ldblquote Social media usage,\rdblquote  {\i Pew research center}, 52\endash 68.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pile, S.} (2005{{a}}): {\i Real cities: modernity, space and the phantasmagorias of city life}, Sage, Beverly Hills CA.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2005{{b}}): \ldblquote Spectral Cities: Where the Repressed Returns and Other Short Stories,\rdblquote  in {\i Habitus: A sense of place}, ed. by J.\~Hillier and E.\~Rooksby, Ashgate Aldershot.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pile, S., C.\~Brook, and G.\~Mooney} (1999): \ldblquote Unruly cities,\rdblquote  {\i Order/disorder}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pinker, S.} (2003): {\i The blank slate: The modern denial of human nature}, Penguin, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Plomin, R., N.\~L. Pedersen, P.\~Lichtenstein, and G.\~McClearn} (1994): \ldblquote Variability and stability in cognitive abilities are largely genetic later in life,\rdblquote  {\i Behavior genetics}, 24, 207\endash 215.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pretty, J.} (2012): {\i The earth only endures: On reconnecting with nature and our place in it}, Routledge, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pykett, J., T.\~Osborne, and B.\~Resch} (2020): \ldblquote From urban stress to neurourbanism: how should we research city well-being?\rdblquote  {\i Annals of the American Association of Geographers}, 110, 1936\endash 1951.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Roberts, J.\~A.} (2011): {\i Shiny Objects: Why We Spend Money We Don\rquote t Have In Search Of Happiness We Can\rquote t Buy Author: James A. Roberts, Publisher}, HarperOne.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Roberts, J.\~A. and A.\~Clement} (2007): \ldblquote Materialism and satisfaction with over-all quality of life and eight life domains,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 82, 79\endash 92.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Rosenthal, S.\~S. and W.\~C. Strange} (2002): \ldblquote The urban rat race,\rdblquote  {\i Syracuse University Working}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2003): \ldblquote Agglomeration, Labor Supply, and the Urban Rat Race,\rdblquote  {\i Center for Policy Research Working Paper}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2008): \ldblquote Agglomeration and hours worked,\rdblquote  {\i The Review of Economics and Statistics}, 90, 105\endash 118.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schkade, D. and D.\~Kahneman} (1998): \ldblquote {Does living in California make people happy? A focusing illusion in judgments of life satisfaction},\rdblquote  {\i Psychological Science}, 9, 340\endash 346.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schwartz, B.} (2004): {\i The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less}, New York NY: Ecco.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Senior, J.} (2006): \ldblquote Some Dark Thoughts on Happiness,\rdblquote  {\i New York Magazine}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Simmel, G.} (1903): \ldblquote The metropolis and mental life,\rdblquote  {\i The Urban Sociology Reader}, 23\endash 31.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Sirgy, M.\~J.} (2002): {\i The psychology of quality of life}, vol.\~12, Springer.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Skidelsky, E. and R.\~Skidelsky} (2012): {\i How much is enough?: money and the good life}, Penguin UK.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stangor, C. and J.\~Walinga} (2010): \ldblquote 12.3 Is Personality More Nature or More Nurture? Behavioural and Molecular Genetics,\rdblquote  {\i Introduction to Psychology-1st Canadian Edition}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stevenson, A. and J.\~Wu} (2019): \ldblquote Tiny Apartments and Punishing Work Hours: The Economic Roots of Hong Kong\rquote s Protests,\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stiglitz, J., A.\~Sen, and J.\~Fitoussi} (2009): \ldblquote Report by the Commission on the measurement of economic performance and social progress,\rdblquote  {\i Available at www.stiglitz-sen-fitoussi.fr}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stoolmiller, M.} (1999): \ldblquote Implications of the restricted range of family environments for estimates of heritability and nonshared environment in behavior\endash genetic adoption studies.\rdblquote  {\i Psychological bulletin}, 125, 392.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Taylor, D.\~G. and D.\~Strutton} (2016): \ldblquote Does Facebook usage lead to conspicuous consumption?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Research in Interactive Marketing}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Tesson, S.} (2013): {\i Consolations of the Forest: Alone in a Cabin in the Middle Taiga}, Penguin, London UK.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Thoreau, H.\~D.} (1995 [1854]): {\i Walden}, Dover Publications, Mineola NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Thrift, N.} (2005): \ldblquote But malice aforethought: cities and the natural history of hatred,\rdblquote  {\i Transactions of the institute of British Geographers}, 30, 133\endash 150.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps T{\'f6}nnies, F.} ([1887] 2002): {\i Community and society}, DoverPublications.com, Mineola NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Veblen, T.} (2005{{a}}): {\i Conspicuous consumption}, vol.\~38, ePenguin, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2005{{b}}): {\i The theory of the leisure class; an economic study of institutions}, Aakar Books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Veenhoven, R.} (2000): \ldblquote The four qualities of life,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of happiness studies}, 1, 1\endash 39.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2014): \ldblquote Livability Theory,\rdblquote  {\i Encyclopedia of Quality of Life and Well-Being Research}, 3645\endash 3647.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Veenhoven, R. and J.\~Ehrhardt} (1995): \ldblquote The Cross-National Pattern of Happiness: Test of Predictions Implied in Three Theories of Happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 34, 33\endash 68.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Velsey, K.} (2016): \ldblquote So You Think Your Place Is Small?\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ware, B.} (2012): {\i The top five regrets of the dying: A life transformed by the dearly departing}, Hay House, Inc.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Weichselbaum, S.} (2013): \ldblquote The smallest apartment in New York\endash barely bigger than a prison cell for $1,275 a month,\rdblquote  {\i NYDailyNews}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps White, M.\~G. and L.\~White} (1977): {\i The intellectual versus the city: from Thomas Jefferson to Frank Lloyd Wright}, Oxford University Press, Oxford UK.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wilson, T.\~C.} (1985): \ldblquote Urbanism, misanthropy and subcultural processes.\rdblquote  {\i The Social Science Journal}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wirth, L.} (1938): \ldblquote Urbanism as a Way of Life,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 44, 1\endash 24.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl477\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Yoneda, Y.} (2012): \ldblquote Woman\rquote s Impossibly Tiny 90 Sq. Ft. Manhattan Apartment is One of the Smallest in NYC,\rdblquote  {\i Inhabitat}.\par
}}}}
