{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was gssLonnieRubia-lg-nov11.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.15 r1252 (released Apr 12 2017) on Mon Feb  1 11:30:56 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  \ldblquote I Wish I Hadn\rquote t Worked So Hard.\rdblquote \emdash Greed And Life Satisfaction \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}\chdate \par
{}{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  A palliative nurse listed the most common regrets of the dying in their last days: \ldblquote I wish I hadn\rquote t worked so hard\rdblquote  is among the top, especially for men. We know from philosophers, social scientists, and religious teachings that greed and materialism are vices. Yet, neo-classical economic theory, which dominates current thinking, promotes the maximization of income and consumption as a virtue. In this paper, we test whether wanting \ldblquote more work and more money\rdblquote  results in human flourishing measured as life satisfaction. We also use additional measures of greed/materialism based on whether respondents agreed with the following statements: \ldblquote next to health, money is most important,\rdblquote  \ldblquote no right and wrong ways to make money,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote a job is just a way to earn money.\rdblquote  Results for all measures concur\emdash there are large negative effect sizes of these measures on life satisfaction, on average about half of the positive effect of income. The findings support policies aiming to curb excessive working hours, materialism, and conspicuous/positional consumption. This study is associative, not necessarily causal, and results may not generalize beyond the US, especially where people are less obsessed with work and money. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb336 \fi0 {\i0\b0\scaps subjective well-being (swb), happiness, life satisfaction, working hours, greed, money, consumerism, conspicuous consumption, materialism }  \par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 {1}{white}{gray90}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 \ldblquote Money is therefore not only the object but also the fountainhead of greed.\rdblquote  Karl Marx, Grundrisse\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 \ldblquote I wish I hadn\rquote t worked so hard\rdblquote  is among the the top five regrets of the dying ({Ware} 2012). This is an incredibly useful resource: the wisdom of people who evaluate their life as a whole on their deathbed. Other top resentments among the dying include: \ldblquote I wish I\rquote d had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me,\rdblquote  \ldblquote I wish I\rquote d had the courage to express my feelings,\rdblquote  \ldblquote I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote I wish that I had let myself be happier.\rdblquote {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} See {Ware} (2012). These regrets are all similarly related\emdash live your own life, spend time with loved ones, travel more, etc.\emdash they all point to less work; if there is any work involved in these wishes, they are often about being more brave and actionable, or taking a different career or investment path, as opposed to working harder and getting more money; remarkably, no one regrets not working harder or making more money. And yet, this is precisely the most common pursuit during our lifetime\emdash income and consumption. Still, note that people do not regret some forms of consumption, such as traveling, which relates to extrinsic vs. intrinsic consumerism\emdash buy experience, not material goods. For other studies on deathbed regrets and elaboration of the concept, see SOM (Supplementary Online Material).}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 There is a clear pattern in responses\emdash regrets are of a spiritual or social nature, but not materialistic. Research on social indicators, quality of life studies, and subjective well-being should leverage such treasure trove of information to advance our understanding on how to live a meaningful and happy life, with fewer regrets. It would be prudent to adhere to these laments and to re-evaluate our own life choices. Of particular interest in this study, is one of the top regrets of the dying, wishing not having worked so much. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In general, philosophers, social scientists, and religious teachings condemn working excessively and wanting too much money and material possessions\emdash greed is even one of the seven deadly sins in Christian teachings. Temperance and restraint from excess are traditionally seen as virtues. Benjamin Franklin, who wrote on moral perfection, includes frugality, temperance, and moderation in his list of virtues.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} \rdblquote Benjamin Franklin on Moral Perfection\rdblquote \endash Practical advice on obtaining a perfectly moral bearing. From his autobiography. {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.ftrain.com/franklin_improving_self" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.ftrain.com/franklin_improving_self}}}}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The wisdom of the dying and their honest evaluation of what really matters in life should be taken seriously, as arguably, there is no one in a better position to know what really matters in life than those facing its end. We have a lot to gain from their regrets, particularly if our own way of life is like theirs. Yet, most people won\rquote t come to the realization that wanting more work and money is indeed a mistake until it is too late.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Greed, materialism, and consumerism (defined in section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMg \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}) became accepted and even celebrated in American society. \ldblquote More working hours\rdblquote  is a badge of courage\emdash \ldblquote conspicuous exhaustion\rdblquote  and \ldblquote busyness\rdblquote \emdash especially in Anglo countries and among professional/managerial jobs ({Gershuny} 2005). Ellon Musk, for example, proclaims that to be successful \ldblquote a person needs to work 80-100 hours per week\rdblquote  ({Musk} 2018). Unrestrained income and consumption maximization (greed) is an integral part of the American Dream ({Robinson and Murphy} 2009). In popular culture in the US, wanting to work more hours and desiring to make more money is typically a virtue {(with some exceptions, e.g., {Folbre and Nelson} 2000).} Both hard work and high income are highly desirable as they may signal ambition and desire for success. A person who follows this trajectory, as popular opinion has it, should be happy.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In one study, students were asked about their feeling related to money, and \ldblquote happiness\rdblquote  was the most frequent emotion they associated with money ({Mogilner} 2010). A recent survey found that a third of people define success by their possessions (cited in {Joye et\~al.} 2020).}
 The American dream is largely based on the capitalistic notion that financial success is what determines who has \ldblquote made it\rdblquote  or \ldblquote succeeded\rdblquote  in society ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011): \ldblquote Life is a game. Money is how we keep score\rdblquote  (Ted Turner, attributed). This is the purpose of the free market economy, to satisfy whatever desires and wants there may be, and to create new ones\emdash arguably, it is only half a joke that marketing is the science of how to make people buy things they don\rquote t need for the money they don\rquote t have. Indeed, money itself creates insatiable wants ({Marx} 1844{a}); and yet, as this study tests, wanting more work and more money is related to lowered life satisfaction. If the goal of life is to have a satisfying life, then our values as a society are incongruous.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In what follows, we document the relationship between indicators of greed/materialism and life satisfaction using the US General Social Survey (GSS). We start by defining our key concepts and variables, present the theory and literature on how greed/materialism can affect life satisfaction, and then proceed to present empirical evidence, discussion of our results, and conclusions. We proxy for greed/materialism (attitude) with four questions capturing that more money (from work) is one\rquote s priority, such as a preference for \ldblquote more hours and more money.\rdblquote  In our models we do not focus on overwork, overearning, and overconsumption (behaviors). As elaborated throughout, because the US is already one of the richest and arguably the most consumerist/materialistic country in the world, wanting even more work and money can be considered more as greed than need (unless one is in the lowest income group).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Subjective Well-being Definition\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote What do [men] demand of life and wish to achieve in it? The answer can hardly be in doubt. They strive after happiness; they want to become happy and to remain so\rdblquote  ( {Freud et\~al.} 1930, p. 52). A brief overview of the concept of happiness is provided in {McMahon} (2005), and a full definition and overview across human history is provided in {McMahon} (2006).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 For simplicity, the terms happiness, life satisfaction, and subjective well-being (SWB) are used interchangeably. But we tend to opt for \ldblquote life satisfaction\rdblquote  as this is what our measure mostly captures. Ruut Veenhoven (2008, p. 2) defines happiness as an \ldblquote overall judgment of life that draws on two sources of information: cognitive comparison with standards of the good life (contentment) and affective information from how one feels most of the time (hedonic level of affect).\rdblquote  Some scholars use \lquote life satisfaction\rquote  to refer to cognition and \lquote happiness\rquote  to refer to affect (e.g., {Dorahy et\~al.} 1998). This dichotomy is not pursued here, because there is only one survey item{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} This is an inherent limitation of our study, as the GSS only has one question on life satisfaction. Still, these are the best data for our study\emdash datasets with more precise measures of SWB have inadequate geographical and temporal coverage.}
 in this study capturing mostly the concept of life satisfaction but also happiness to a lesser degree. Therefore, the definition by {Veenhoven} (2008) seems most appropriate.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Even though self-reported and subjective, the life satisfaction measure is reliable (precision varies), valid, and correlated with similar objective measures of well-being ({Myers} 2000, {Layard} 2005).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMg}2{\*\bkmkend BMg}  Greed\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote  \lquote Excess and intemperance\rquote  are money\rquote s true norm.\rdblquote  ({Marx} 1844{a})\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 The Merriam-Webster\rquote s dictionary defines greed as \ldblquote a selfish and excessive desire for more of something (as money) than is needed.\rdblquote  If one doesn\rquote t lack necessities (needs), but desires to have more, then it is greed see also {Seuntjens et\~al.} (2015{a}) and {Wang and Murnighan} (2011)). According to the livability theory: \ldblquote Like all animals, humans have innate needs, such as food, safety, and companionship\emdash gratification of needs manifests in hedonic experience\rdblquote ({Veenhoven} 2014)\emdash yet, for the vast majority of Americans wanting more money is not to satisfy innate needs. Thus, desiring to have more money if one can satisfy basic needs is greed. In a rich country such as the US, money-orientation is typically greed. {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In popular opinion in the US, however, greed is more associated with the ENRON scandal and the likes\emdash breaking the law to acquire millions. But the definition of a greedy person is a person who wants more than is needed, and what is needed are the biological/physiological needs that we all share: food, shelter, security, etc ({Veenhoven} 2014). It could be argued that to achieve self-actualization, or self-esteem as proposed in the Maslow\rquote s Hierarchy of Needs ({Maslow} [1954] 1987), additional money is necessary\emdash but do note that attainment of any of those does not require much money, it is rather that people in a consumerist society wrongly believe that they need money for self-esteem, and self actualization. Notably, more work hours to generate more money actually prevents one from socializing and belonging with others, and from doing creative activities that can lead to self actualization (both the human needs on Maslow\rquote s Hierarchy). Indeed, the US is in a crisis of alienation and isolation as a result ({Putnam} 2001, {Wilkinson and Pickett} 2010).}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 {Bok} (2010) made an useful comparison: today\rquote s bottom income decile has a better quality of life than everyone 100 years ago except for the top decile. Arguably, a person in the US at the 90th percentile of income 100 years ago was not critically hampered by the lack of money to satisfy her basic needs. Likewise, we argue that the same is true for a person at the 10th percentile of income today in a rich country such as the US.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In our empirical analysis that follows, we dropped the poorest 10 percent from our sample as a robustness check. We also controlled for income and social class in our models. In addition to {Bok} (2010), refer to {Pinker} (e.g., 2018) for an overview of the human civilization progress.}
 Except for those in deep poverty, wanting more is arguably typically greed due to materialism and consumerism. Sure, even in the US, and even for the middle class, more money could often help with their quality of life, but the point is that by working more one loses time, which is necessary to satisfy human needs ({Maslow} [1954] 1987). The humanistic needs theories of Maslow, Rogers, and Fromm specifically suggest that pursuit of money may distract from fulfillment of needs and lead to distress (cited in {Kasser and Ryan} 1993). Arguably, for a typical middle class American reducing work hours (income) and consumption would result in a better quality of life ({Dittmar et\~al.} 2014, {Kasser} 2003, {Hsee et\~al.} 2013, {Leonard} 2010). Indeed, if longer work hours create a \ldblquote rat race\rdblquote  where no one\rquote s wellbeing improves, either absolutely or relatively, there is a case for adopting collective policies and practices that mitigate these forces ({Jauch} 2020, {Hamermesh et\~al.} 2017, {Golden} 2009).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In the US the problem is not so much the lack of income as conspicuous consumption. Even the impoverished in poor developing countries spend as much as 30 percent of income on conspicuous consumption ({Banerjee et\~al.} 2011). The upper limit for the 1st decile of usual weekly earnings of full-time wage and salary workers in the US is $500, or about $70 daily, which is more than 10 times the amount that half of the world population lives on: $5.50.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} The data come from {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.bls.gov/news.release/wkyeng.t05.htm" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.bls.gov/news.release/wkyeng.t05.htm}}} and {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2018/10/17/nearly-half-the-world-lives-on-less-than-550-a-day" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2018/10/17/nearly-half-the-world-lives-on-less-than-550-a-day}}}.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Typically, the rich are more greedy (and more unethical in general) than the rest of the population ({Piff and Robinson} 2017, {Piff} 2014, {Piff et\~al.} 2012, 2010, {Kraus et\~al.} 2009), but it does not change the fact that the middle class, and even the poor, can be greedy, too. Greed is based on the love for money, not the possession of it. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Perhaps, according to an US perspective, our measures in this study are not measuring greed per se, but merely capturing a person\rquote s money-orientation. But taking an international perspective and biological human needs (as per {Veenhoven} 2014) into account, our measures are reasonable and adequate measures of greed.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} {There are several greed scales, with items that have stronger money orientation than the ones used here. For instance {Seuntjens et\~al.} (2015{b}): 1. I always want more, 2. Actually, I\rquote m kind of greedy, 3. One can never have too much money, 4. As soon as I have acquired something, 5. It doesn\rquote t matter how much I have. I\rquote m never completely satisfied, 6. My life motto is "more is better," 7. I can\rquote t imagine having too many things. {Mussel et\~al.} (2018) compares different scales. } We are unaware of a large scale nationally representative dataset having such a proper greed scale that would also contain subjective well-being measures and its predictors. It\rquote s rather the US that is an outlier and doesn\rquote t fit the international norm in terms of greed, materialism, aggressiveness, dominance, and the like. The US is perceived as exceptionally and problematically narcissistic ({Miller et\~al.} 2015). The US is able to dominate other countries through being (or threatening to be) aggressive and violent (e.g., {Pratto et\~al.} 2011). Indeed, the US is considered the leading terrorist organization in the world ({Chomsky} 2015). }
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 It is difficult for people in the US to see that they are greedy, because the term \ldblquote greed\rdblquote  has negative connotations. But at the same time, greed became the norm, so people don\rquote t perceive anything wrong in wanting to have more. Indeed, as Jon Foreman put it: \ldblquote Greed, envy, sloth, pride and gluttony: these are not vices anymore. No, these are marketing tools. Lust is our way of life. Envy is just a nudge towards another sale. Even in our relationships we consume each other, each of us looking for what we can get out of the other. Our appetites are often satisfied at the expense of those around us. In a dog-eat-dog world we lose part of our humanity.\rdblquote {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Another example: "Most of the time, successful modern life involves [...] working very hard for as much money as possible, and doing what we are told. These elements are almost a conventional prescription for success." {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife/henry-david-thoreau" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife/henry-david-thoreau}}}.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The intention to work more and make more money, may not seem congruent with greed, but in an exceptionally rich, materialistic and consumerist society, such as the US, wanting more is usually not a need but a want or greed. Indeed, an argument can be made that Americans are in general greedy, as they consume most in the world per capita ({Leonard} 2010, {Kasser} 2003). If it is not apparent that the US is one of the most greedy or the very most greedy nation, it is clear that the US is the most materialistic/consumerist nation in the world, and greed is close to materialism.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 {Seuntjens et\~al.} (2015{a}) provides an useful overview of the concept of greed, which is summarized in this paragraph. In Belk\rquote s definition, greed is one of the core elements of materialism. Although materialistic people can indeed be greedy, greed is broader than just a desire for material possessions. People can be greedy for food, power, or sex, which has nothing to do with materialism. Whereas materialists desire things because they signal success in life, greed can also be felt for things that do not signal success or status (e.g., being greedy for candy).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 We will continue with the discussion of greed and its relationship to human wellbeing in section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrel \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}, but first we present the theory and define human wellbeing.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 3  A Theoretical Foundation\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote Money is therefore not only the object but also the fountainhead of greed.\rdblquote  Karl Marx, Grundrisse\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Marx wrote a brief paper, \ldblquote The Power of Money\rdblquote  ({Marx} 1844{b}), where he argues that money is the procurer between a person\rquote s needs and the desired object. Money is a powerful and omnipotent being because it can buy anything, and one can appropriate of all objects desired as a result. But also money has a distortive power. It distorts human nature and relations between people: {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \li512\ri512\fi300 Money, then, appears as this distorting power both against the individual and against the bonds of society, etc., which claim to be entities in themselves. It transforms fidelity into infidelity, love into hate, hate into love, virtue into vice, vice into virtue, servant into master, master into servant, idiocy into intelligence, and intelligence into idiocy. Since money, as the existing and active concept of value, confounds and confuses all things, it is the general confounding and confusing of all things\emdash the world upside-down\emdash the confounding and confusing of all natural and human qualities.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li512\ri512\fi300 He who can buy bravery is brave, though he be a coward. As money is not exchanged for any one specific quality, for any one specific thing, or for any particular human essential power, but for the entire objective world of man and nature, from the standpoint of its possessor it therefore serves to exchange every quality for every other, even contradictory, quality and object: it is the fraternization of impossibilities. It makes contradictions embrace.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li512\ri512\fi300 Assume man to be man and his relationship to the world to be a human one: then you can exchange love only for love, trust for trust, etc. If you want to enjoy art, you must be an artistically cultivated person; if you want to exercise influence over other people, you must be a person with a stimulating and encouraging effect on other people. Every one of your relations to man and to nature must be a specific expression, corresponding to the object of your will, of your real individual life ({Marx} 1844{b}, cited in). \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 Acquiring money is counterproductive\emdash neediness grows as the power of money increases ({Marx} 1844{a}). Thus, according to Marx, for human flourishing, instead of acquiring more money, one should rather try to enjoy things without using money,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} For instance, in less capitalistic countries such as Eastern Europe or Latin America, kids get together spontaneously and play soccer in public space for free and are happy. In the US there is a coach, there is special soccer field, special gear, etc. It costs money and from anecdotal observation looks less happy. \ldblquote Money can\rquote t buy happiness, but it can make you awfully comfortable while you\rquote re being miserable\rdblquote  ( {Munier} 2004, p.26).}
 because of money\rquote s distortive property. Hence, we would expect that those who want more money are not happier, and probably less happy than others. There is little happiness from money, because happiness is \ldblquote subsequent fulfillment of a prehistoric wish. That is why wealth brings so little happiness: money was not a wish in childhood\rdblquote  (Freud cited in {Marcuse} 2015, p. 203).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Just as wanting more money is counterproductive, so is wanting more labor: labor alienates a person from 1) object of her labor, 2) herself and her essence, and 3) from other humans ({Petrovi{\u263c}} 1963).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 While Marx didn\rquote t use directly the terms \ldblquote life satisfaction\rdblquote  or \ldblquote happiness,\rdblquote  he had much to say about well-being using different terminology. He was a humanist, inherently interested in human flourishing and well-being. When arguing for a free classless society, he is essentially advocating for a person\rquote s ability to develop her multiple physical and psychological talents and potentials: \ldblquote the full development of human mastery over the forces of nature . . . the absolute working out of [their] creative potentialities . . . the development of all human powers as an end in itself\rdblquote (cited in {Struhl} 2016, p. 91).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 According to Marx, work is a drudgery and toil in capitalism ({Marx} [1867] 2010, {Lyons} 2007). Wage slaves are \ldblquote hired slaves instead of block slaves. You have to dread the idea of being unemployed and of being compelled to support your masters\rdblquote  (p. 283 {Goldman et\~al.} 2003). Capitalists largely do not work, their income and wealth come from capital, not labor. Labor under capitalism is a wretched condition. Yet it is necessary, one needs to make a living and exchange their labor for necessities. But wanting more work and money through labor (and even capital) than necessary is a futile endeavor and should lead to more alienation and misery, not human flourishing, which is why one of the top regrets of the dying is, \rdblquote I wish I hadn\rquote t worked so hard.\rdblquote \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 What one should do instead according to Marx is enjoy life freely and spontaneously, \ldblquote It will be possible to hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticize after dinner . . . without ever becoming a hunter, fisherman, herdsman, or critic., and do what one pleases\rdblquote  This agrees with the Frankfurt School, e.g., Marcuse\rquote s idea of unrestrained joyful spontaneity ({Marcuse} 2015). Even Keynes made similar predictions in his \ldblquote Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren\rdblquote  ({Keynes} [1930] 1963).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Instead, under capitalism, as Marx put it well, \ldblquote labor has become not only a means of life but life\rquote s prime want\rdblquote  (cited in {Struhl} 2016, p. 91). Indeed, Americans already live to work, while people in less capitalistic and more enlightened societies work to live ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011, {Valente and Berry} 2016). Therefore, wanting even more work and more money seems counterproductive for human flourishing (unless one is in poverty). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Marx would rather call capitalists \ldblquote greedy\rdblquote  than workers, but of course workers can be both taken advantage of by greedy capitalists and be \ldblquote greedy\rdblquote  at the same time, especially when they live in a contemporary post-industrial affluent country like the US. Curiously, Marx thought capitalists are also at least in some ways victims of the capitalist system: {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \li512\ri512\fi300 The propertied class and the class of the proletariat present the same human self-estrangement. . . . The class of the proletariat feels annihilated in estrangement; it sees in it its own powerlessness and the reality of an inhuman existence. It is . . . abasement, the indignation at that abasement, an indignation to which it is necessarily driven by the contradiction between its human nature and its condition of life, which is the outright, resolute and comprehensive negation of that nature (cited in {Byron} 2016, p 381). \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 For example, the idealized bourgeois family was in fact fraught with tension, oppression, and resentment\emdash the family kept together not because of love but for financial reasons.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Marx agreed that basic human needs must be satisfied (similar to Veenhoven\rquote s livability theory ({Veenhoven} 2014)){\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} While some argue that Marx had no theory of human nature, a case can be made that he at least in parts of his writing referred to human nature. Veenhoven\rquote s and Marx\rquote s theories are similar in how they both refer to the essential biological/physiological needs we have. But, while Veenhoven emphasizes human similarity to other animals, Marx emphasizes the differences: \ldblquote To know what is useful for a dog, one must study dog-nature. This nature itself is not deduced from the principle of utility. Applying this to man, he that would criticize all human acts, movements, relations, etc. by the principle of utility must first deal with human nature in general, and then with human nature as modified in each historical epoch\rdblquote (quoted in {Struhl} 2016, p. 83). The varying human nature by historical epoch is counter to evolutionary biology, where genes are relatively stable over thousands of years; Still Marx does believe in evolution ({Heyer} 1982), and he somewhat acknowledges the problem, where he worries that some negative human tendencies would still exist after capitalism is abolished.}
: \ldblquote people cannot be liberated as long as they are unable to obtain food and drink, housing and clothing of adequate quality and quantity\rdblquote  (cited in {Geras} 1983, p. 70). Marx argues that humans are social beings, and too much focus on individualism distorts human nature. Humans are not inherently selfish, as economists argue, rather their selfishness results from commodity fetishism. Humans are alienated from their human nature and other humans under capitalism ({Byron} 2016, {Petrovi{\u263c}} 1963). Good society should allow full uninhibited spontaneous human expression ({Marcuse} 2015).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} The idea is gratification in the free play of the released potentialities of humans, sensuousness, liberation of the senses and freedom from constraints ({Marcuse} 2015). And such freedom, liberation and free play are constrained by capitalism, e.g., \ldblquote necessary labor is a system of essentially inhuman, mechanical, and routine activities\rdblquote  ( {Marcuse} 2015, p. 195).}
 And this would be one mechanism linking greed to unhappiness\emdash humans become alienated from their nature, and end up unhappy. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Ideology can promote and perpetuate greed. The neoclassical school of economics\rquote s claim that a {\i laissez faire} neoliberal free market capitalism is the fairest, and people\rquote s belief in this claim certainly contributes to widespread greed. Ironically, the masses supporting capitalism are irrational and acting against their own interest\emdash and they do so following the classical economic theory preaching that everyone is rational and self-interested. We know that people are not perfectly rational and they often act against their own interest ({Akerlof and Shiller} 2010, {Ariely} 2009, {Shiller} 2015). Non-capitalists are not free in capitalism, they are commodities in the market and they work too much and worry too much to enjoy life ({Okulicz-Kozaryn et\~al.} 2014). Ironically, we have capitalism in the first place in order to be free\emdash we justify the very existence of capitalism with freedom ({Hayek} 2014, {Friedman} 2009, {Glaeser} 2011). Free market provides incentives to embrace capitalism and submit oneself to a capitalist, and economics provides the \ldblquote science\rdblquote  to justify such as system.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Conventional economic theory{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Not all of economics is responsible for overwork, overearning, and overconsumption. It is mostly classical economics like Adam Smith and neoclassical like Milton Friedman and Gary Becker. And in fairness to economics, it must be noted that virtually all of economics considers work as disutility, and Adam Smith even did condemned dehumanizing effects of repetitive work, and called it "toil and trouble" ( {Spencer} 2020, p. 54). And of course, there are also economists that do expose false consciousness related to money (e.g, {Kahneman et\~al.} 2006). Also note that in addition to income, leisure is also part of the utility function: U = f(Y,L) \endash  income and leisure time ({McConnell et\~al.} 2016). One of the most bizarre statements come from Nobel prize winning Gary Becker\emdash that happiness is like a car in utility function ({Becker and Rayo} 2008). }
 states that more income and consumption equates to more utility or happiness ({Autor} 2010, {Becker and Rayo} 2008): {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\i m}{\i o}{\i n}{\i e}{\i y}={\i u}{\i t}{\i i}{\i l}{\i i}{\i t}{\i y}{\u8776*}{\i h}{\i a}{\i p}{\i p}{\i i}{\i n}{\i e}{\i s}{\i s}\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In classical economic theory, self-interest is the key assumption, as rational people should maximize their personal outcomes ({Seuntjens et\~al.} 2015{a}). And by economic theory, profit maximization, not any social responsibility, should be the only concern of businesses ({Friedman} 1970). Economists advanced a concept of an ideal human being, so called \ldblquote homo economicus,\rdblquote  a perfectly rational homo sapiens who maximizes income and consumption at all times: \ldblquote 1) people are self-interested utility-maximizers, 2) individuals should be unimpeded in their pursuit of their own self-interest through economic transactions, and 3) virtually all human interactions are economic transactions\rdblquote  ( {Walker} 1992, p. 273). Indeed, taking economics classes may increase one\rquote s greedy behavior ({Wang and Murnighan} 2011).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In addition to maximizing income and consumption, another flaw in economics is the complete, extreme, and unrestrained labor specialization, which according to Marx leads to alienation from human nature and other humans ({Petrovi{\u263c}} 1963).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 According to Marx, our work should not be highly specialized in one area, but we should take on multiple roles: gardening, construction, writing, etc. We should be spontaneous and creative and see ourselves in the products we create: I did that, that is me. Ideally if we could, we should help others decrease their suffering (like nurses do) and increase their delight (like artists do). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 A relevant economics theorist is {Keynes} ([1930] 1963), who predicted about 100 years ago that there will be enough wealth for everyone to work less and enjoy life. The prediction of 15-hour work week was supposed to materialize 100 years later. It did not happen\emdash we work more, not less. It is forgotten that people actually worked less before industrialization than they do now ({Schor} 2008). Arguably Marx was correct: in order for the technological progress (which did happen) to liberate workers, there must be communal ownership of the means of production ({Spencer} 2020), otherwise the toil and drudgery will continue as they do. In general, however, we don\rquote t need much labor anymore to produce what we need. For instance, in 1700, it took the labor of almost all adults to feed a nation, today hardly anyone needs to be employed in farming, making cars needs practically no employees, and so forth. Yet, we do not liberate ourselves\emdash Marx is arguably more relevant now than in the second half of the 20th century ({Piketty} 2014, {Peet} 2015, {Menand} 2020). Another economist, Veblen, criticized the leisure class and conspicuous consumption ({Veblen} 2005{a}, 2005{b}), but also criticized primacy of money, which kills \lquote instinct of workmanship\rquote  ({Spencer} 2020). His writings are relevant in the sense that overwork and overearning is arguably usually for the sake of conspicuous or positional consumption ({Haight} 1997), which in return does not result in happiness, but often creates unhappiness for a consumer and those around her ({Frank} 2012, 2010, 2008, 2004, {Kasser} 2003, {Schmuck et\~al.} 2000), e.g., consumption of luxury cars decreases satisfaction of others ({Winkelmann} 2012).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 4  Subjective Well-being Theory\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 There are several SWB theories about how happiness or life satisfaction is created. There is the adaptation/adjustment or \rdblquote hedonic treadmill\rdblquote  theory ({Brickman et\~al.} 1978): the problem with greed/materialism is that one\rquote s goal never gets fulfilled\emdash there is always a new IPhone or a new model of Lexus, and planned obsolescence ({Satyro et\~al.} 2018, {Agrawal et\~al.} 2016). \ldblquote The more one has, the more one wants, since satisfactions received only stimulate instead of filling needs\rdblquote  ( {Durkheim} [1895] 1950, p. 248). The theory of happiness as a motivator ({Carver and Scheier} 1990) is also relevant here. This is one key reason why greed and materialism work\emdash humans get momentary bliss or pleasure from making money or spending it, only to find that it doesn\rquote t last and one is back on the hamster wheel. The realization of what is happening may come when it is too late, at the end of one\rquote s life (refer to the introduction and discussion).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Veenhoven\rquote s needs/livability theory is similar to Marx\rquote s theory of human nature: \ldblquote Like all animals, humans have innate needs, such as for food, safety, and companionship. Gratification of needs manifests in hedonic experience\rdblquote ( {Veenhoven} 2014, p. 3645). One surely needs money to satisfy needs under capitalism. But the vast majority of people in affluent countries such as the US have already their needs satisfied, and hence, wanting more is simply greed. Importantly, many poor people fail to satisfy the basic needs, not because they do not have enough money, but because they spend too much, notably on conspicuous or positional consumption. Likewise, many middle class or rich people fail to satisfy their needs because they overconsume, overwork, and overearn. Overwork, overearning, and overconsumption uses limited time and attention that is necessary to satisfy needs to belong, create, and self-fulfill.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} There are many notable exceptions, of course, but in general Americans do overwork ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011), overearn ({Hsee et\~al.} 2013), and overconsume ({Kasser} 2003). And paradoxically, because most people overwork, overearn, and overconsume\emdash one in some way satisfies her need to belong if one does the same. Yet as discussed throughout, this causes more problems than advantages.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Finally, there is the comparison/discrepancies theory ({Michalos} 1985). Being greedy and materialistic, one not only diminishes her own wellbeing, but also the wellbeing of others around her. Humans compare with others all the time, and a person overworking, overearning, or overspending makes others the same way. Working, earning, and spending is like an arms race that can be won only by a minuscule fraction of the population, say the top .001 of a percent of the population (1 in 100,000), all others lose, especially given that in many cases the winner takes it all\emdash Robert Frank provides many examples in his informative \ldblquote Darwin\rquote s Economy\rdblquote  2012. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMrel}5{\*\bkmkend BMrel}  The Relationship Of Greed, Materialism, Consumerism And Subjective Wellbeing\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote Does money buy happiness?\rdblquote  is the title of a classic happiness paper by Easterlin 1973 that started the so called \ldblquote economics of happiness.\rdblquote  Fifty years later, thousands of studies have been produced on the topic and the consensus is that money buys happiness up to a point, or at least that there are diminishing marginal returns ({\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://worlddatabaseofhappiness.eur.nl" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://worlddatabaseofhappiness.eur.nl}}}). In other words, one needs to be able to afford necessities or basic human needs as per Veenhoven\rquote s Livability Theory ({Veenhoven} 2014). More money than necessary does not buy happiness, and indeed, may actually decrease happiness .\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Already 50 years ago Easterlin has recognized what today is more severe and largely unrecognized, that the pursuit of money and the pursuit of happiness are about the same thing in the US. {In one study students were asked about their feeling related to money, and \ldblquote happiness\rdblquote  was the most frequent emotion cited ({Mogilner} 2010). A recent survey found that a third of people define success by their possessions (cited in {Joye et\~al.} 2020). }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Financial success is a central life aspiration in a capitalistic culture and an integral part of the American Dream ({Kasser and Ryan} 1993). Business scholars teach us that we need money to be happy ({Whillans et\~al.} 2017, {Kushlev et\~al.} 2015, {Aknin et\~al.} 2013, 2012, {Norton et\~al.} 2011, {Dunn et\~al.} 2008). Money in itself (money greed) is an important part of the dream, but so is materialism and consumption (possessions greed) ({Kasser} 2016, {Dittmar et\~al.} 2014, {Kasser} 2003, {Leonard} 2010): a suburban large expensive conspicuous \ldblquote villa\rdblquote  (e.g., \ldblquote McMansion\rdblquote ) ({Duany et\~al.} 2001), a large expensive conspicuous car (e.g., Cadillac, SUV) ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Tursi} 2015), an expensive and fashionable computer (e.g., Apple), watch (e.g., Rolex), handbag (e.g., Louis Vuitton), and the list continues ad infinitum. Advertisers have promised satisfaction, but have led people instead into a rat race of joyless production and consumption ({Cederstr{\'f6}m} 2018). Even conservatives seem to notice that consumption may not lead to happiness ({Brooks} 2020).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 There are closely related and mutually reinforcing forces: greed/money orientation/love of money, materialism, consumerism, conspicuous/positional consumption\emdash people chase money in order to consume and see that as an end in itself, the goal of life has become to make as much money as possible mostly in order to acquire as much material possessions as possible.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Again, like with greed and wanting more work and money\endash greed is not the same as materialism, consumerism and conspicuous consumption, but in the affluent US society it usually is, and again, we will subset our sample to drop the poor to argue this point. And importantly, even the exaggerated consumption among the so called poor in rich countries is due to wants and not needs. This is the case even in poor countries, where the poor could spend up up to 30 percent more on food than it actually does if it completely cut expenditures on alcohol, tobacco, and festivals ({Banerjee et\~al.} 2011). It is often men that engage in non-necessary consumption among the poor. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The poor even engage in conspicuous consumption at the expense of proper calorie intake ({Bellet and Colson-Sihra} 2018). There is a culture of adornment ({Cordwell et\~al.} 2011, {Mascia-Lees} 1992). But even in the US, one can see a culture of adornment, also among the poor: Iphones, LV bags, golden chains, etc. One ubiquitous characteristics of the US residential areas, even the poor ones, such as Camden NJ, is luxury cars\emdash they are expensive and there is no added wellbeing benefit from owning them ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Tursi} 2015). }
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 There is also a need to belong mechanism at play: humans have a strong need to belong and fit, and if they do, they are happier ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2010, 2011) Because the US is a deeply materialistic and consumerist society, one may need more money than it would be otherwise necessary to feel comfortable\emdash not many can be comfortable not keeping up with the Joneses. But such overworking, overearning, and overconsuming has nothing to do with real human needs. It is an artificial product of capitalism that forces people to act that way\emdash all commodities are produced for exchange, not for usefulness\emdash there will be no production without consumption ({Marx} 1844{a}). This topic is fascinating, because on one hand the majority of the population accepts or celebrates money orientation (greed) and materialism/consumerism, but on the other hand we know that it doesn\rquote t buy happiness, and that it actually usually leads to unhappiness. Love of money (greed) and materialism/consumerism can be exciting and indeed provide a momentary pleasure\emdash this is another reason why we chase them in addition to being mainstream and fashionable. But in the long run greed and materialism/consumerism do not lead to improved SWB, typically they lead to decreased SWB, and often to outright misery. In a sense that money and consumption do provide momentary excitement and pleasure, but have typically negative consequences in the long run, money and consumption are like fatty foods, marijuana, vodka, and gambling ({Linden} 2011). People indeed get addicted because of the momentary pleasure and excitement, and they often do not realize the negative consequences until it is too late and they have already lived their life. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Would you be happier if you were richer? Although, you might think so, it is actually an illusion ({Kahneman et\~al.} 2006), or a false consciousness. We know that materialism and consumerism decrease happiness ({Kasser} 2016, {Dittmar et\~al.} 2014, {Brown and Kasser} 2005, {Kasser} 2003, {Schmuck et\~al.} 2000, {Kasser and Ryan} 1993, {Leonard} 2010), and related, extrinsic (v intrinsic) consumption decreases happiness as well ({Ryan and Deci} 2000, {Ryan et\~al.} 1999, {Morrison and Weckroth} 2017).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 People should buy time and experiences, not material goods (except bare necessities, of course). Valuing time and experience over money, not the other way round, predicts happiness ({Whillans et\~al.} 2019). Thus, one should buy experiences, not material goods (e.g., go bowling as opposed to buying more clothes)({Putnam} 2001, {Kasser} 2016, {Dittmar et\~al.} 2014). One should buy time, (e.g., cut commute)\emdash time is actually arguably the most important resource ({Masuda et\~al.} 2020, {Williams et\~al.} 2016, {Whillans et\~al.} 2017). Likewise, autonomous and flexible work schedules predict greater happiness ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Golden} 2018, 2017, {Farber} 2016, {Golden and Wiens-Tuers} 2006, {Golden et\~al.} 2013).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 We know for a long time that money acquisition, materialism, and consumerism do provide at least momentary pleasure: \ldblquote a pleasure of gain or a pleasure of acquisition: at other times of possession\rdblquote  and buffers against negatives \ldblquote immunity from pain\rdblquote  \ldblquote the happening of mischief, pain, evil, or unhappiness.\rdblquote  (Bentham cited in  {Cummins} 2019).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In original Early Modern English language: \ldblquote a pleafure of gain or a pleafure of acquifition: at other times a pleafure of poffeffion" and \ldblquote the happening of mischief, pain, eveil, or unhappinefs.\rdblquote }
 Although one needs to remember that Bentham wrote these words before the industrial revolution took off, at a time when deprivation was common, and indeed more money was necessary for most people to meet basic needs and buffer against misfortune. Today, the situation is very different in developed countries, and certainly in the US\emdash for the vast majority of people wanting more money is greed. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The appeal of greed is not only due to its momentarily excitement and pleasure. Greed can be good in many ways as reviewed by {Seuntjens et\~al.} (2015{a}) and summarized in this paragraph. Greed has many positive economic consequences. Greed and self-interest are the principal motivators for a flourishing economy: greed motivates the creation of new products and the development of new industries. Some greed may be inherent to human nature\emdash all humans are greedy to some extent. Greed may be an evolutionary adaptation promoting self-preservation. Those who are more predisposed to gain and hoard as much resources as possible may have an evolutionary advantage. But greed is insatiable. To the greedy, it is never enough. The greedy are permanently on a hedonic treadmill\emdash they may think that they will be happier with more money, but as soon as they get more, they adapt their desires and expectations and want even more. Greed may result in financial debt. Greed can make bankers behave recklessly, which in turn can lead to a financial crisis. A classic example of the negative consequences of greed is the \ldblquote Tragedy of the Commons.\rdblquote  Medieval herders in the UK could let their livestock graze on a common parcel of land besides their own private parcel. There was a clear preference for herders to let their livestock graze on these \ldblquote commons.\rdblquote  Although rational from an individual perspective, it led to overgrazing and the common ground becoming infertile and useless to all. These types of situations occur due to greed.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Greed is good for business as the Wall Street movie character, Gordon Gecko infamously remarked, \ldblquote Greed is good.\rdblquote  And indeed greed is popular among the business elites ({Robinson and Murphy} 2009). In general, individual differences in entrepreneurial tendencies and abilities are positively related to primary psychopathy ({Akhtar et\~al.} 2013) ({Feher} Unknown).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 While there are studies on materialism, consumerism, conspicuous/positional consumption and SWB, there are no studies about greed and SWB, hence this study aims to contribute to the literature by filling this gap. There are no studies about the actual pursuit of money, or the intention to work more and make more money and SWB. This is the first study using the \ldblquote more hours and more money\rdblquote  concept along with other similar measures for this purpose. In what follows, we describe the dataset used and the analysis we conducted to test the hypothesis that: {\i the more greed, the less SWB}. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 6  Data and Model\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We use the US General Social Survey (GSS) ({\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "gss.norc.org" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{gss.norc.org}}}). The GSS is collected face-to-face and is nationally representative. The outcome of interest, SWB is measured with answers to \ldblquote Taken all together, how would you say things are these days\emdash would you say that you are very happy, pretty happy, or not happy?\rdblquote  on scale 1{=}not happy, 2{=}happy, and 3{=}very happy. Note that while the question uses the word \ldblquote happy,\rdblquote  it is mostly about the overall cognitive life satisfaction, not momentarily affective happiness.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Two measures of greed, \ldblquote {\f3 more hours and more money}\rdblquote  and \ldblquote {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}\rdblquote  come from the QWL (Quality of Working Life) module. The QWL module was designed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to measure attitudes toward work, workplaces, safety/health. These two questions were designed by social psychologists to capture cultural attitudes, in this case focused on money. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The greed/money orientation questions were only asked in a few years: \ldblquote {\f3 more hours and more money}\rdblquote  and \ldblquote {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}\rdblquote  were asked in 1989, 1998, 2006, and 2016. The other two measures, \ldblquote {\f3 next to health, money is most important}\rdblquote  and \ldblquote {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}\rdblquote  were asked in 1973, 1974, and 1976.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Since the years do not overlap, we can not construct a greed scale using these variables. We focus on showing robustness by using each measure separately to show that no matter how we measure greed, the results are similar. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Greed/money orientation is arguably confounded with the type of work one performs, thus, we include industry dummies for: professional, administrative and managerial, clerical, sales, service, agriculture, production and transport, craft and technical. Likewise, greed/money orientation is possibly confounded with religiosity: religious people are not supposed to want more money than needed, or to be greedy. Hence, we include religious dummies: Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, None, Other, Buddhism, Hinduism, Other Eastern, Muslim/Islam, Orthodox-Christian, Christian, Native American, and Inter-Nondenominational.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 We use household income and not personal income for two reasons: personal income data are missing for a substantial portion of the sample, and what matters for one\rquote s happiness (and greed) is not only her own individual income, but the household income. We control for number of people in the household\emdash if one has a family and children (and possibly elderly in the household), wanting more money may be necessary, and a need, not greed.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Finally, we control for predictors of SWB. What makes people happy? {Myers} (2000) suggests that age, race, gender, income, education, and marriage are all sources of interpersonal variations in happiness. Young and old people are happy (e.g., {Sanfey and Teksoz} 2005). Men are less happy than women, the difference being small ({Blanchflower and Oswald} 2004). At least some income is necessary for happiness and unemployment decreases it (e.g., {{Di Tella} et\~al.} 2001{b}, 2001{a}, {{Di Tella} and MacCulloch} 2006). Being married boosts happiness (e.g., {Myers} 2000, {Diener and Seligman} 2004). Blacks are less happy than Whites (e.g., {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2009, 2011, {Blanchflower and Oswald} 2004). A key predictor of SWB is health, thus, we control for subjective self-report of health, which is a reasonable measure of objective health ({Subramanian et\~al.} 2009).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 We also control for regional differences by including dummies for census regions: New England, Middle Atlantic, E. Nor. Central, W. Nor. Central, South Atlantic, E. Sou. Central, W. Sou. Central, Mountain, and Pacific. And since we use pooled GSS data, we include year dummies.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 We use ordinary least squares (OLS) to analyze the data. Although OLS assumes cardinality of the outcome variable, and happiness is clearly an ordinal variable, OLS is an appropriate estimation method to use in this case. {{Ferrer-i-Carbonell} and Frijters} (2004) showed that results are substantially the same to those from discrete models, and OLS has become the default method in happiness research ({Blanchflower and Oswald} 2011). Theoretically, while there is still debate about the cardinality of SWB, there are strong arguments to treat it as a cardinal variable ({Ng} 1996, 1997, 2011). \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 7  Results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 There are four tables, each for one of the 4 measures of greed, and each table has 5 models that sequentially elaborate the relationship between each measure of greed and SWB. Model 1 only includes a measure of greed (plus year and region dummies as all models do (not shown). Then two alternative models explore separately the addition of working hours dummies (2a) and income (2b); model 3 includes all three variables together, model 4 adds the occupational dummies (not shown), and model 5 adds a set of socio-demographic controls and religion dummies (not shown). All models include year and region dummies.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbetaa \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}, what is notable is that in model a2b the effect of \ldblquote {\f3 more hours and more money}\rdblquote  is half the effect of income. This is a substantial and unexpected effect size: greed cuts happiness received from income by half. Even more remarkably in the full model a5, the effect of \ldblquote {\f3 more hours and more money}\rdblquote  is about as large as that of income.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Controlling for working hours and income doesn\rquote t remove the effect of greed\emdash if you want to work more and make more money, it makes you unhappy regardless of your current working hours and income. {We tried interactions of the greed measures with income and working hours, but we didn\rquote t find very clear robust patterns, so we do not report them.}\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3324\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4046\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4768\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5490\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6212\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6934\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {ref: same hours and same money:}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql { more hours and more money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql { fewer hours and less money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.17***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3324\cellx4046\cellx4768\cellx5490\cellx6212\cellx6934\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3324\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4046\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4768\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5490\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6212\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6934\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7656
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2472}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2309}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2306}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2159}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2154}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1627}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMbetaa}1{\*\bkmkend BMbetaa}: OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 more hours and more money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 more hours and more money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbetab \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}, the effect of \ldblquote {\f3 next to health, money is most important}\rdblquote  is about half to a third of that of income. In models b4 and b5 it looses statistical significance, but remains negative. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbetac \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}, the effect of \ldblquote {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}\rdblquote  is about half to two thirds of income. In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbetad \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}} the effect of \ldblquote {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}\rdblquote  is about a third to a half of the effect of income.\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {next to health, money is most important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.29*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.36*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.22***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.25***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4455}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2407}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4123}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2282}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2239}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1832}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMbetab}2{\*\bkmkend BMbetab}: OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {no right and wrong ways to make money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.29*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.35*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.22***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.25***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4368}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2377}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4051}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2259}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2216}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1813}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMbetac}3{\*\bkmkend BMbetac}: OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {job is just a way to earn money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.17}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.15***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4032}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2598}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3660}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2422}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2416}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1840}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMbetad}4{\*\bkmkend BMbetad}: OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 OLS regressions of SWB, fully standardized beta coefficients: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 Controlling for income and unemployment/working hours is critical: wanting more work and money is not a vice for the poor or unemployed (or some underemployed). Controlling for income (and social class) responds to potential criticism that it is low income or deprivation, and not greed that affects negatively SWB. In the supplemental material we also subset the sample by either excluding the bottom or the top decile of the income distribution, and the results remain robust. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The large greed effect sizes are remarkable. The negative effect size of greed is on average about half of the positive effect of income. Depending on the specification, the effect size of greed is as small as a third and as large as that of income on SWB. If the greed measures were combined into an index, the effect size would have probably been even stronger, but the measures come from different years.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The effect size is quite persistent: both income and hours worked have only moderate confounding effect on the negative effect of greed measures on SWB: controlling for either of them cuts the effect size by as little as about 10 percent for up to about 40 percent. Income has more confounding effect than working hours. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 8  Conclusion and Discussion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote See what your greed for money has done.\rdblquote  Woody Guthrie, Massacre\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 8.1  Conclusion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The regrets of the dying ({Ware} 2012) provide a sobering lesson on what is truly important in life. A person on her deathbed has a unique perspective to honestly evaluate life as a whole. Overwork, overearning, materialism, and consumerism are scourge of our times.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Our empirical tests agree\emdash greed is robustly related to lower life satisfaction. The large effect size of greed measures on SWB is remarkable. The negative effect size of greed is on average about half of the positive effect of income.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The paradox is that popular culture and neoclassical economics promote greed and overwork, and few people question them as a way of life, and yet they lead to deep and painful regrets at the end of life. It is not new that greed and materialism are vices, we have known this since ancient times, and yet today, greed and materialism are accepted, promoted, and often celebrated in our society\emdash it has become a normal state of affairs. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 8.2  Discussion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 \ldblquote There\rquote s class warfare, all right, but it\rquote s my class, the rich class, that\rquote s making war, and we\rquote re winning.\rdblquote  Warren Buffett\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 What Buffet noticed, goes almost unnoticed in the US\emdash one of the exceptionalisms of the US is the very low class consciousness ({Lipset} 1997, {Lipset and Marks} 2000). \ldblquote I wish I hadn\rquote t worked so hard\rdblquote  is the opposite of what is promoted by capitalists, economists, and politicians ({Wang and Murnighan} 2011, {Wight} 2005): \ldblquote people need to work longer hours\rdblquote  ({Smith} 2015). {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Not all economists, capitalists, and politicians agree of course, for instance see {Wight} (2005) and {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.epi.org/" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.epi.org/}}}.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Seventy percent of American workers are \ldblquote not engaged\rdblquote  or \ldblquote actively disengaged\rdblquote  at work ( {Harvey} 2014). If the majority of people don\rquote t like their job, the extra money may not be worth the extra time spent at work. Indeed, many suffer from time poverty ({Williams et\~al.} 2016). This is consistent with a Marxian perspective that labor under capitalism is drudgery and toil. Indeed it is \ldblquote wage slavery,\rdblquote  where labor is a commodity\emdash we are like commodities on the market trying to sell our labor.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Yet in communism, according to Marx, work could be liberating, creative, enhancing, and self-fulfilling ({Spencer} 2020). Thus, it would satisfy Maslow\rquote s needs of esteem and self-actualization ({Maslow} [1954] 1987). To be fair, there are liberating, creative, enhancing, and self-fulfilling jobs even in capitalism. The few such jobs include tenured professors\emdash much of our work is pleasure and self actualization. Artists, writers, and actors are other such notable jobs. Yet, the vast majority of artists, writers, and actors survive on minimum wage from unrelated jobs to support themselves, because these types of jobs are \ldblquote winner take it all\rdblquote  ({Frank} 2012). So are research jobs increasingly \ldblquote winner take it all,\rdblquote  with proportion of tenure track or tenured faculty declining and competition increasing (see reports and discussions at {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "aaup.org" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{aaup.org}}}). And even us, tenured professors, find ourselves alienated and overworked with increasing administrative and service loads as even public education is being rampantly corporatized ({Mills} 2012{a}, {Cox} 2013, {Mills} 2012{b}, {Catropa and Andrews} 2020, {Schmidlin} 2015).\par
}
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Greed, materialism and overconsumption do not lead to happiness, but to unhappiness, and they can cause pollution and climate change ({Leonard} 2010, {Pachauri et\~al.} 2014). It could be argued that if greed is good for the economy, then it may be good for human wellbeing indirectly\emdash the better the economy, the higher the standard of living, and the happier the people. Except that we don\rquote t need more economic growth. A reasonable case has been made for degrowth by {Kallis et\~al.} (2012), {Kallis} (2011), {Van\~den Bergh} (2011) (including reduced work hours ({Fitzgerald et\~al.} 2018)).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 There is a notable a paradigm shift under way in terms of what persons and societies should maximize. The second half of the twentieth century was marked by maximization of income and consumption and rebuilding of the world after the wars. It was the goal behind the establishment of international institutions, e.g., World Bank, IMF, and WTO. Now, even some economists are noticing that the maximization of income or consumption is not the only goal worth pursuing. For instance, Amartya Sen proposed subjective well-being as a measure to maximize ({Stiglitz et\~al.} 2009). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 {Diener} (2009) has provided an authoritative discussion of why potential problems with happiness are not serious enough to make it unusable for interventions, planning, and public policy. Our findings support policies aiming at improving working conditions and lowering working hours; curbing materialism and conspicuous/positional consumption. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 This study is observational, not causal, and our results may not generalize beyond the US, especially where people are less obsessed with work and money. Future studies should examine other countries and how greed affects happiness elsewhere. We speculate that the results may hold in places like Europe or Latin America where people are happier working less and spending more time with family and friends ({Valente and Berry} 2016, {Valente} 2015, {Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Although, greed is central to the human existence and contributes to many problems, notably climate change (e.g., {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Altman} 2019), empirical research on greed is rare. Thus, future research will provide valuable contributions to the literature. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 American corporate capitalism\emdash the highly competitive economic system embraced by the United States as well as England, Australia and Canada\emdash encourages materialism more than other forms of capitalism. As expected, citizens who live in more competitive free market systems care more about money, power and achievement than people who live under more cooperative systems. Research also supports the notion that the more people care about money and power, the less they care about community and relationships. {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.apa.org/monitor/2009/01/consumerism" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.apa.org/monitor/2009/01/consumerism}}}}
. As social welfare institutions and labor market policies have some positive effect on work conditions ({Inanc} 2020), we do support such regulation as a step in the right direction. However, without a change in ownership relations, as Marx argued, there is unlikely any dramatic change in human wellbeing. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Greed, materialism and consumerism are widespread and rampant in the US. They are accepted and even celebrated. The underlining point is that they are not even noticed, discussed, or questioned. They became the norm to the point that they are not much recognized. It\rquote s just the way things are, the way of life as usual\emdash but this was not always the case. The US actually has a rich tradition of simple, social, and spiritual life, dating back to the settlers ({Fischer} 1991). Benjamin Franklin pointed to frugality, temperance, and moderation in his list of virtues.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} \rdblquote Benjamin Franklin on Moral Perfection\rdblquote \endash Practical advice on obtaining a perfectly moral bearing. From his autobiography: {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.ftrain.com/franklin_improving_self" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.ftrain.com/franklin_improving_self}}}.}
 Likewise, the US is home of two great transcendentalists: Emerson and Thoreau. Similarly, great humanists like Marcuse and Maslow lived in the US. But somehow, arguably with the help of neoclassical economists, notably Hayek, Becker, and Friedman, the US has become a nation where greed is \ldblquote good.\rdblquote \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 What makes it hard to change the current way of life is the persistence of the ideologies that justify it, and which make what is only a human invention seem like \ldblquote the way things are\rdblquote  ({Menand} 2020). Notably, Marx criticized the economic concepts that make social relations in a free-market economy seem natural and inevitable, in the same way that concepts like the great chain of being and the divine right of kings once made the social relations of feudalism seem natural and inevitable ({Menand} 2020). In his 1845 work \ldblquote The German Ideology,\rdblquote  he wrote, \ldblquote the ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas.\rdblquote  In a capitalist society most people, rich and poor, believe all sorts of things that are really just value judgments that relate back to the economic system, for example: that a person who doesn\rquote t work is practically worthless, that if we simply work hard enough we will get ahead, and that more possessions will make us happier. Our results, provide evidence to the contrary: wanting to work more for more money will result in lower life satisfaction. Inevitably it will be for many people their top regret when facing the end of life. \par
{\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Agrawal, V.\~V., S.\~Kavadias, and L.\~B. Toktay} (2016): \ldblquote The limits of planned obsolescence for conspicuous durable goods,\rdblquote  {\i Manufacturing & Service Operations Management}, 18, 216\endash 226.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Akerlof, G.\~A. and R.\~J. Shiller} (2010): {\i Animal Spirits: How Human Psychology Drives the Economy, and Why It Matters for Global Capitalism (New in Paper)}, Princeton University Press, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Akhtar, R., G.\~Ahmetoglu, and T.\~Chamorro-Premuzic} (2013): \ldblquote Greed is good? Assessing the relationship between entrepreneurship and subclinical psychopathy,\rdblquote  {\i Personality and individual differences}, 54, 420\endash 425.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Aknin, L.\~B., C.\~P. Barrington-Leigh, E.\~W. Dunn, J.\~F. Helliwell, J.\~Burns, R.\~Biswas-Diener, I.\~Kemeza, P.\~Nyende, C.\~E. Ashton-James, and M.\~I. Norton} (2013): \ldblquote Prosocial spending and well-being: Cross-cultural evidence for a psychological universal.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Personality and Social Psychology}, 104, 635.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Aknin, L.\~B., E.\~W. Dunn, and M.\~I. Norton} (2012): \ldblquote Happiness runs in a circular motion: Evidence for a positive feedback loop between prosocial spending and happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Happiness Studies}, 13, 347\endash 355.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ariely, D.} (2009): {\i Predictably irrational, revised and expanded edition: The hidden forces that shape our decisions}, Harper.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Autor, D.} (2010): \ldblquote Lecture 3: Axioms of Consumer Preference and the Theory of Choice,\rdblquote  {\i MIT Open Course Ware}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Banerjee, A.\~V., A.\~Banerjee, and E.\~Duflo} (2011): {\i Poor economics: A radical rethinking of the way to fight global poverty}, Public Affairs.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Becker, G. and L.\~Rayo} (2008): \ldblquote Comment on \rquote Economic Growth and Subjective Well-Being: Reassessing the Easterlin Paradox\rquote  by Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfers,\rdblquote  {\i Brookings Papers on Economic Activity}, 88\endash 95.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bellet, C. and E.\~Colson-Sihra} (2018): \ldblquote The Conspicuous Consumption of the Poor: Forgoing Calories for Aspirational Goods,\rdblquote  Tech. rep., Working Paper.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Berry, B.\~J. and A.\~Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2011): \ldblquote An Urban-Rural Happiness Gradient,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Geography}, 32, 871\endash 883.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Berry, B. J.\~L. and A.\~Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2009): \ldblquote Dissatisfaction with City Life: A New Look at Some Old Questions,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 26, 117\endash 124.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Blanchflower, D. and A.\~Oswald} (2004): \ldblquote Money, sex and happiness: An empirical study,\rdblquote  {\i The Scandinavian Journal of Economics}, 393\endash 415.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Blanchflower, D.\~G. and A.\~J. Oswald} (2011): \ldblquote International happiness: A new view on the measure of performance,\rdblquote  {\i The Academy of Management Perspectives}, 25, 6\endash 22.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bok, D.} (2010): {\i The politics of happiness: What government can learn from the new research on well-being}, Princeton University Press, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brickman, P., D.\~Coates, and R.\~Janoff-Buman} (1978): \ldblquote Lottery winners and accident victims: Is happiness relative?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Personality and Social Psychology}, 36, 917\endash 927.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brooks, A.\~C.} (2020): \ldblquote Are We Trading Our Happiness for Modern Comforts? As society gets richer, people chase the wrong things.\rdblquote  {\i The Atlantic}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Brown, K.\~W. and T.\~Kasser} (2005): \ldblquote Are psychological and ecological well-being compatible? The role of values, mindfulness, and lifestyle,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 74, 349\endash 368.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Byron, C.} (2016): \ldblquote Essence and Alienation: Marx\rquote s Theory of Human Nature,\rdblquote  {\i Science & Society}, 80, 375\endash 394.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Carver, C.\~S. and M.\~F. Scheier} (1990): \ldblquote Origins and functions of positive and negative affect: a control-process view.\rdblquote  {\i Psychological review}, 97, 19.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Catropa, D. and M.\~Andrews} (2020): \ldblquote Bemoaning the Corporatization of Higher Education,\rdblquote  {\i insidehighered.com}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cederstr{\'f6}m, C.} (2018): {\i The happiness fantasy}, John Wiley & Sons.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Chomsky, N.} (2015): \ldblquote The Leading Terrorist State,\rdblquote  {\i Truthout}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cordwell, J.\~M., R.\~A. Schwarz, et\~al.} (2011): {\i The fabrics of culture: the anthropology of clothing and adornment}, Walter de Gruyter.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cox, R.\~W.} (2013): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education,\rdblquote  {\i Class, race and corporate power}, 1, 8.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cummins, R.\~A.} (2019): \ldblquote Jeremy Bentham, Utility, and the Golden Triangle of Happiness,\rdblquote  in {\i Wealth (s) and Subjective Well-Being}, Springer, 67\endash 83.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Di Tella}, R. and R.\~MacCulloch} (2006): \ldblquote Some Uses of Happiness Data in Economics,\rdblquote  {\i The Journal of Economic Perspectives}, 20, 25\endash 46.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Di Tella}, R., R.\~J. MacCulloch, and A.\~J. Oswald} (2001{{a}}): \ldblquote The macroeconomics of happiness,\rdblquote  Warwick Economic Research Papers No 615.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2001{{b}}): \ldblquote Preferences over inflation and unemployment: Evidence from surveys of happiness,\rdblquote  {\i American Economic Review}, 91, 335\endash 341.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Diener, E.} (2009): {\i Well-being for public policy}, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Diener, E. and M.\~E.\~P. Seligman} (2004): \ldblquote Beyond Money: Toward an Economy of Well-being,\rdblquote  {\i Psychological Science}, 5, 1\endash 31.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dittmar, H., R.\~Bond, M.\~Hurst, and T.\~Kasser} (2014): \ldblquote The relationship between materialism and personal well-being: A meta-analysis.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality and social psychology}, 107, 879.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dorahy, M.\~J., C.\~A. Lewis, J.\~F. Schumaker, R.\~Akuamoah-Boateng, M.\~Duze, and T.\~E. Sibiya} (1998): \ldblquote A cross-cultural analysis of religion and life satisfaction.\rdblquote  {\i Mental Health, Religion & Culture}, 1, 37\endash 43.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Duany, A., E.\~Plater-Zyberk, and J.\~Speck} (2001): {\i Suburban nation: The rise of sprawl and the decline of the American dream}, North Point Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dunn, E.\~W., L.\~B. Aknin, and M.\~I. Norton} (2008): \ldblquote Spending money on others promotes happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Science}, 319, 1687\endash 1688.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Durkheim, E.} ([1895] 1950): {\i The Rules of Sociological Method}, The Free Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Easterlin, R.\~A.} (1973): \ldblquote Does money buy happiness?\rdblquote  {\i The public interest}, 30, 3.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Farber, S.} (2016): \ldblquote The Golden Clock: How One Simple Time Hack Could Increase Your Happiness at Work,\rdblquote  {\i Inc.com}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Feher, B.\~M.} (Unknown): \ldblquote The Relationship Between Greed And Goal Motivation,\rdblquote  {\i Unpublished: {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://arno.uvt.nl/show.cgi?fid=146263" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://arno.uvt.nl/show.cgi?fid=146263}}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Ferrer-i-Carbonell}, A. and P.\~Frijters} (2004): \ldblquote How Important is Methodology for the Estimates of the Determinants of Happiness?\rdblquote  {\i Economic Journal}, 114, 641\endash 659.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fischer, D.} (1991): {\i Albion\rquote s seed: Four British folkways in America}, vol.\~1, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fitzgerald, J.\~B., J.\~B. Schor, and A.\~K. Jorgenson} (2018): \ldblquote Working hours and carbon dioxide emissions in the United States, 2007\endash 2013,\rdblquote  {\i Social Forces}, 96, 1851\endash 1874.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Folbre, N. and J.\~A. Nelson} (2000): \ldblquote For love or money\endash or both?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Economic Perspectives}, 14, 123\endash 140.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frank, R.} (2012): {\i The Darwin economy: Liberty, competition, and the common good}, Princeton University Press, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Frank, R.\~H.} (2004): \ldblquote How not to buy happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Daedalus}, 133, 69\endash 79.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2008): \ldblquote Should public policy respond to positional externalities?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Public Economics}, 92, 1777\endash 1786.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2010): \ldblquote Hey, Big Spender: You Need a Surtax,\rdblquote  {\i New York Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Freud, S., J.\~Riviere, and J.\~Strachey} (1930): {\i Civilization and its discontents}, Hogarth Press London.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Friedman, M.} (1970): \ldblquote The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits,\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times Magazine}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2009): {\i Capitalism and freedom}, University of Chicago press, Chicago IL.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Geras, N.} (1983): {\i Marx and human nature: Refutation of a legend}, Verso.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Gershuny, J.} (2005): \ldblquote Busyness as the badge of honor for the new superordinate working class,\rdblquote  {\i Social research}, 287\endash 314.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L.} (2011): \ldblquote The moral heart of economics,\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Golden, L.} (2009): \ldblquote A brief history of long work time and the contemporary sources of overwork,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Business Ethics}, 84, 217\endash 227.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Golden, L., J.\~R. Henly, and S.\~Lambert} (2013): \ldblquote Work Schedule Flexibility: A Contributor to Happiness?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Social Research & Policy}, 4, 1\endash 29.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Golden, L. and B.\~Wiens-Tuers} (2006): \ldblquote To your happiness? Extra hours of labor supply and worker well-being),\rdblquote  {\i The Journal of Socio-Economics}, 35, 382\endash 397.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Goldman, E., C.\~Falk, B.\~Pateman, and J.\~M. Moran} (2003): {\i Emma Goldman: Made for America, 1890-1901}, vol.\~1, Univ of California Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Haight, A.\~D.} (1997): \ldblquote Padded prowess: A Veblenian interpretation of the long hours of salaried workers,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Economic Issues}, 31, 29\endash 38.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hamermesh, D.\~S., D.\~Kawaguchi, and J.\~Lee} (2017): \ldblquote Does labor legislation benefit workers? Well-being after an hours reduction,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of the Japanese and International Economies}, 44, 1\endash 12.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Harvey, D.} (2014): {\i Seventeen contradictions and the end of capitalism}, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hayek, F.\~A.} (2014): {\i The Road to Serfdom: Text and Documents: The Definitive Edition}, Routledge, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Heyer, P.} (1982): \ldblquote Nature, Human Nature, and Society Marx, Darwin, Biology, and the Human Sciences,\rdblquote  .\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hirst, E.} (1934): \ldblquote The categorical imperative and the Golden Rule,\rdblquote  {\i Philosophy}, 9, 328\endash 335.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hsee, C.\~K., J.\~Zhang, C.\~F. Cai, and S.\~Zhang} (2013): \ldblquote Overearning,\rdblquote  {\i Psychological science}, 1\endash 8.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Inanc, H.} (2020): \ldblquote Varieties of precarity: How insecure work manifests itself, affects well-being, and is shaped by social welfare institutions and labor market policies,\rdblquote  {\i Work and Occupations}, 0730888420934539.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Jauch, M.} (2020): \ldblquote The rat race and working time regulation,\rdblquote  {\i Politics, Philosophy & Economics}, 1470594X20927894.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Joye, Y., J.\~W. Bolderdijk, M.\~A. K{\'f6}ster, and P.\~K. Piff} (2020): \ldblquote A diminishment of desire: Exposure to nature relative to urban environments dampens materialism,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Forestry & Urban Greening}, 54, 126783.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kahneman, D., A.\~B. Krueger, D.\~Schkade, N.\~Schwarz, and A.\~A. Stone} (2006): \ldblquote Would you be happier if you were richer? A focusing illusion,\rdblquote  {\i science}, 312, 1908\endash 1910.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G.} (2011): \ldblquote In defence of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 70, 873\endash 880.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G., C.\~Kerschner, and J.\~Martinez-Alier} (2012): \ldblquote The economics of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 84, 172\endash 180.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kasser, T.} (2003): {\i The high price of materialism}, MIT press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2016): \ldblquote Materialistic values and goals,\rdblquote  {\i Annual review of psychology}, 67, 489\endash 514.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kasser, T. and R.\~Ryan} (1993): \ldblquote A dark side of the American dream: correlates of financial success as a central life aspiration.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality and social psychology}, 65, 410.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Keynes, J.\~M.} ([1930] 1963): {\i Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren}, WW Norton & Company, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kraus, M.\~W., P.\~K. Piff, and D.\~Keltner} (2009): \ldblquote Social class, sense of control, and social explanation.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality and social psychology}, 97, 992.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kushlev, K., E.\~W. Dunn, and R.\~E. Lucas} (2015): \ldblquote Higher Income Is Associated With Less Daily Sadness but not More Daily Happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Social Psychological and Personality Science}, 6, 483\endash 489.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Layard, R.} (2005): {\i Happiness. Lessons from a new science.}, The Penguin Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Leonard, A.} (2010): {\i The story of stuff: How our obsession with stuff is trashing the planet, our communities, and our health-and a vision for change}, Simon and Schuster.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Linden, D.} (2011): {\i The Compass of Pleasure: How Our Brains Make Fatty Foods, Orgasm, Exercise, Marijuana, Generosity, Vodka, Learning, and Gambling Feel So Good}, Viking Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lipset, S.\~M.} (1997): {\i American exceptionalism: A double-edged sword}, WW Norton & Company, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lipset, S.\~M. and G.\~Marks} (2000): {\i It didn\rquote t happen here: why socialism failed in the United States}, WW Norton & Company, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lykken, D. and A.\~Tellegen} (1996): \ldblquote Happiness is a Stochastic Phenomenon,\rdblquote  {\i Psychological Science}, 7, 186\endash 189.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lyons, R.\~G.} (2007): \ldblquote Towards a theory of work satisfaction: An examination of Karl Marx and Frederick Herzberg,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Thought}, 42, 105\endash 113.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Marcuse, H.} (2015): {\i Eros and civilization: A philosophical inquiry into Freud}, Boston MA: Beacon Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Marx, K.} (1844{{a}}): \ldblquote Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844. Human Requirements and Division of Labour Under the Rule of Private Property,\rdblquote  {\i www.marxists.org}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1844{{b}}): \ldblquote The Power Of Money,\rdblquote  {\i marxists.org}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  ([1867] 2010): {\i Capital, vol. 1}, http://www.marxists.org.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mascia-Lees, F.\~E.} (1992): {\i Tattoo, torture, mutilation, and adornment: The denaturalization of the body in culture and text}, SUNY Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Maslow, A.} ([1954] 1987): {\i {Motivation and personality}}, Longman, 3 ed.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Masuda, Y.\~J., J.\~R. Williams, and H.\~Tallis} (2020): \ldblquote Does Life Satisfaction Vary with Time and Income? Investigating the Relationship Among Free Time, Income, and Life Satisfaction,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Happiness Studies}, 1\endash 23.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps McConnell, C., S.\~Brue, and D.\~Macpherson} (2016): {\i Contemporary labor economics}, McGraw-Hill Education.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps McMahon, D.\~M.} (2005): \ldblquote The Quest for Happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Wilson Quarterly}, 29, 62\endash 71.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2006): {\i Happiness: A history}, Grove Pr.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Menand, L.} (2020): \ldblquote Karl Marx, Yesterday and Today. The nineteenth-century philosopher\rquote s ideas may help us to understand the economic and political inequality of our time.\rdblquote  {\i The New Yorker}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Michalos, A.} (1985): \ldblquote Multiple discrepancies theory (MDT),\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 16, 347\endash 413.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Miller, J.\~D., J.\~L. Maples, L.\~Buffardi, H.\~Cai, B.\~Gentile, Y.\~Kisbu-Sakarya, V.\~S. Kwan, A.\~LoPilato, L.\~F. Pendry, C.\~Sedikides, et\~al.} (2015): \ldblquote Narcissism and United Culture: The View From Home and Around the World.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Personality and Social Psychology}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mills, N.} (2012{{a}}): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education,\rdblquote  {\i Dissent}, 59, 6\endash 9.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2012{{b}}): \ldblquote The Corporatization of Higher Education.\rdblquote  {\i dissentmagazine.org}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mogilner, C.} (2010): \ldblquote The pursuit of happiness: Time, money, and social connection,\rdblquote  {\i Psychological Science}, 21, 1348\endash 1354.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, M. and N.\~J. Roese} (2011): \ldblquote Regrets of the typical American: Findings from a nationally representative sample,\rdblquote  {\i Social Psychological and Personality Science}, 2, 576\endash 583.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, P.\~S. and M.\~Weckroth} (2017): \ldblquote Human values, subjective well-being and the metropolitan region,\rdblquote  {\i Regional Studies}, 1\endash 13.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Munier, P.} (2004): {\i On Being Blonde: Wit and Wisdom from the World\rquote s Most Infamous Blondes}, Fair Winds Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Musk, E.} (2018): \ldblquote A person needs to work 80-100 hours per week to "change the world",\rdblquote  {\i LinkedIN Pulse}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mussel, P., J.\~Rodrigues, S.\~Krumm, and J.\~Hewig} (2018): \ldblquote The convergent validity of five dispositional greed scales,\rdblquote  {\i Personality and Individual Differences}, 131, 249\endash 253.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Myers, D.\~G.} (2000): \ldblquote The Funds, Friends, and Faith of Happy People,\rdblquote  {\i American Psychologist}, 55, 56\endash 67.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ng, Y.-K.} (1996): \ldblquote Happiness surveys: Some comparability issues and an exploratory survey based on just perceivable increments,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 38, 1\endash 27.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1997): \ldblquote A case for happiness, cardinalism, and interpersonal comparability,\rdblquote  {\i The Economic Journal}, 107, 1848\endash 1858.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2011): \ldblquote Happiness is absolute, universal, ultimate, unidimensional, cardinally measurable and interpersonally comparable: A basis for the environmentally responsible Happy Nation Index,\rdblquote  Tech. rep., Monash University, Department of Economics.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Norton, M.\~I., L.\~Anik, L.\~B. Aknin, and E.\~W. Dunn} (2011): \ldblquote Is life nasty, brutish, and short? Philosophies of life and well-being,\rdblquote  {\i Social Psychological and Personality Science}, 2, 570\endash 575.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A.} (2010): \ldblquote Religiosity and life satisfaction across nations,\rdblquote  {\i Mental Health, Religion & Culture}, 13, 155\endash 169.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2011): \ldblquote Europeans Work to Live and Americans Live to Work (Who is Happy to Work More: Americans or Europeans?),\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Happiness Studies}, 12, 225\endash 243.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and M.\~Altman} (2019): \ldblquote The Happiness-Energy Paradox: Energy Use is Unrelated to Subjective Well-Being,\rdblquote  {\i Applied Research in Quality of Life}, 1\endash 13.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and L.\~Golden} (2017): \ldblquote Happiness is flextime,\rdblquote  {\i Applied Research in Quality of Life}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2018): \ldblquote Unhappiness is Unpredactability,\rdblquote  {\i Applied Research in Quality of Life}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A., O.\~Holmes\~IV, and D.\~R. Avery} (2014): \ldblquote The Subjective Well-Being Political Paradox: Happy Welfare States and Unhappy Liberals.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Applied Psychology}, 99, 1300\endash 1308.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and N.\~O. Tursi} (2015): \ldblquote Luxury Car Owners Are Not Happier Than Frugal Car Owners,\rdblquote  {\i Forthcoming in International Review of Economics}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pachauri, R.\~K., M.\~Allen, V.\~Barros, J.\~Broome, W.\~Cramer, R.\~Christ, J.\~Church, L.\~Clarke, Q.\~Dahe, P.\~Dasgupta, et\~al.} (2014): {\i Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change}, IPCC.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Peet, R.} (2015): \ldblquote Capital in the 21st century: Economics as usual,\rdblquote  {\i Geoforum}, 65, 301\endash 303.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Petrovi{\u263c}, G.} (1963): \ldblquote Marx\rquote s Theory of Alienation,\rdblquote  {\i Philosophy and Phenomenological Research}, 23, 419\endash 426.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Piff, P.\~K.} (2014): \ldblquote Wealth and the inflated self class, entitlement, and narcissism,\rdblquote  {\i Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin}, 40, 34\endash 43.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Piff, P.\~K., M.\~W. Kraus, S.\~C{\'f4}t{\'e9}, B.\~H. Cheng, and D.\~Keltner} (2010): \ldblquote Having less, giving more: the influence of social class on prosocial behavior,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality and social psychology}, 99, 771.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Piff, P.\~K. and A.\~R. Robinson} (2017): \ldblquote Social class and prosocial behavior: current evidence, caveats, and questions,\rdblquote  {\i Current Opinion in Psychology}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Piff, P.\~K., D.\~M. Stancato, S.\~C{\'f4}t{\'e9}, R.\~Mendoza-Denton, and D.\~Keltner} (2012): \ldblquote Higher social class predicts increased unethical behavior,\rdblquote  {\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences}, 109, 4086\endash 4091.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Piketty, T.} (2014): {\i Capital in the 21st Century}, Harvard University Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pinker, S.} (2018): {\i Enlightenment now: the case for reason, science, humanism, and progress}, Penguin.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pratto, F., I.\~Lee, J.\~Y. Tan, and E.\~Pitpitan} (2011): \ldblquote Power basis theory: A psycho-ecological approach to power,\rdblquote  in {\i Social motivation}, ed. by D.\~Dunning, Psychology Press, 191\endash 222.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Putnam, R.\~D.} (2001): {\i Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community}, New York, NY: Simon & Schuster.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Robinson, M. and D.\~Murphy} (2009): {\i Greed is good: Maximization and elite deviance in America}, Rowman & Littlefield.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Roese, N.\~J. and A.\~Summerville} (2005): \ldblquote What we regret most... and why,\rdblquote  {\i Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin}, 31, 1273\endash 1285.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ryan, R.\~M., V.\~I. Chirkov, T.\~D. Little, K.\~M. Sheldon, E.\~Timoshina, and E.\~L. Deci} (1999): \ldblquote The American dream in Russia: Extrinsic aspirations and well-being in two cultures,\rdblquote  {\i Personality and social psychology bulletin}, 25, 1509\endash 1524.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ryan, R.\~M. and E.\~L. Deci} (2000): \ldblquote Intrinsic and extrinsic motivations: Classic definitions and new directions,\rdblquote  {\i Contemporary educational psychology}, 25, 54\endash 67.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Sanfey, P. and U.\~Teksoz} (2005): \ldblquote Does Transition Make You Happy?\rdblquote  EBRD Working Paper 58.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Satyro, W.\~C., J.\~B. Sacomano, J.\~C. Contador, and R.\~Telles} (2018): \ldblquote Planned obsolescence or planned resource depletion? A sustainable approach,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of cleaner production}, 195, 744\endash 752.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schmidlin, K.} (2015): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education: With a system that caters to the 1 percent, students and faculty get screwed. Low-paid teachers are fighting back against exploitation in public & private colleges. No more poverty wages,\rdblquote  {\i salon.com}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schmuck, P., T.\~Kasser, and R.\~M. Ryan} (2000): \ldblquote Intrinsic and extrinsic goals: Their structure and relationship to well-being in German and US college students,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 50, 225\endash 241.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schor, J.} (2008): {\i The overworked American: The unexpected decline of leisure}, Basic books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Seuntjens, T.\~G., M.\~Zeelenberg, S.\~M. Breugelmans, and N.\~Van\~de Ven} (2015{{a}}): \ldblquote Defining greed,\rdblquote  {\i British Journal of Psychology}, 106, 505\endash 525.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Seuntjens, T.\~G., M.\~Zeelenberg, N.\~Van\~de Ven, and S.\~M. Breugelmans} (2015{{b}}): \ldblquote Dispositional greed.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Personality and Social Psychology}, 108, 917.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Shiller, R.\~J.} (2015): {\i Irrational exuberance}, Princeton University Press, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Smith, C.} (2015): \ldblquote Jeb Bush: People Need to Work Longer Hours,\rdblquote  {\i ABC News}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Spencer, D.\~A.} (2020): \ldblquote Attitudes to Work and the Future of Work: The View from Economics,\rdblquote  in {\i Work in the Future}, 53\endash 63.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stiglitz, J., A.\~Sen, and J.\~Fitoussi} (2009): \ldblquote Report by the Commission on the measurement of economic performance and social progress,\rdblquote  {\i Available at www.stiglitz-sen-fitoussi.fr}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Struhl, K.\~J.} (2016): \ldblquote Marx and human nature: The historical, the trans-historical, and human flourishing,\rdblquote  {\i Science & Society}, 80, 78\endash 104.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Subramanian, S., M.\~A. Subramanyam, S.\~Selvaraj, and I.\~Kawachi} (2009): \ldblquote Are self-reports of health and morbidities in developing countries misleading? Evidence from India,\rdblquote  {\i Social science & medicine}, 68, 260\endash 265.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Tang, T. L.-P. and R.\~K. Chiu} (2003): \ldblquote Income, money ethic, pay satisfaction, commitment, and unethical behavior: Is the love of money the root of evil for Hong Kong employees?\rdblquote  {\i Journal of business ethics}, 46, 13\endash 30.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Valente, R.} (2015): \ldblquote Working Hours and Life Satisfaction: A cross-cultural comparison of Latin America and the United States,\rdblquote  {\i Unpublished}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Valente, R.\~R. and B.\~J. Berry} (2016): \ldblquote Dissatisfaction with city life? Latin America revisited,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 50, 62\endash 67.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Van\~den Bergh, J.\~C.} (2011): \ldblquote Environment versus growth\endash A Criticism of "degrowth" and a plea for "a-growth",\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 70, 881\endash 890.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Veblen, T.} (2005{{a}}): {\i Conspicuous consumption}, vol.\~38, ePenguin, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2005{{b}}): {\i The theory of the leisure class; an economic study of institutions}, Aakar Books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Veenhoven, R.} (2008): \ldblquote Sociological theories of subjective well-being,\rdblquote  in {\i The Science of Subjective Well-being: A tribute to Ed Diener}, ed. by M.\~Eid and R.\~Larsen, The Guilford Press, New York NY, 44\endash 61.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2014): \ldblquote Livability Theory,\rdblquote  {\i Encyclopedia of Quality of Life and Well-Being Research}, 3645\endash 3647.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Walker, J.\~S.} (1992): \ldblquote Greed is good... or is it? Economic ideology and moral tension in a graduate school of business,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Business Ethics}, 11, 273\endash 283.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wang, L. and J.\~K. Murnighan} (2011): \ldblquote On greed,\rdblquote  {\i Academy of Management Annals}, 5, 279\endash 316.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ware, B.} (2012): {\i The top five regrets of the dying: A life transformed by the dearly departing}, Hay House, Inc.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Whillans, A., L.\~Macchia, and E.\~Dunn} (2019): \ldblquote Valuing time over money predicts happiness after a major life transition: A preregistered longitudinal study of graduating students,\rdblquote  {\i Science advances}, 5, eaax2615.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Whillans, A.\~V., E.\~W. Dunn, P.\~Smeets, R.\~Bekkers, and M.\~I. Norton} (2017): \ldblquote Buying time promotes happiness,\rdblquote  {\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences}, 201706541.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wight, J.\~B.} (2005): \ldblquote Adam Smith and greed,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Private Enterprise}, 21, 46.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wilkinson, R.\~G. and K.\~E. Pickett} (2010): {\i The spirit level: Why equality is better for everyone}, Penguin, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Williams, J.\~R., Y.\~J. Masuda, and H.\~Tallis} (2016): \ldblquote A measure whose time has come: Formalizing time poverty,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 128, 265\endash 283.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Winkelmann, R.} (2012): \ldblquote Conspicuous consumption and satisfaction,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of economic psychology}, 33, 183\endash 191.\par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \fs50 SOM-Supplementary Online Material; Online Appendix\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 Descriptive Statistics\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Pairwise correlations (not shown) of greed variables with SWB are small, about -.1, but so are pairwise correlations of other variables, e.g.,income is only correlated with SWB at .2\emdash one needs to remember that about half of SWB is explained by genes ({Lykken and Tellegen} 1996).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Paper Body Results: Regular Coefficients (Not Beta)\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: more and more}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: fewer and less}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.58***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.49***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.39***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.32*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.27*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.23}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.21***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.36+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.19}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {orthodox-christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.15}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.45***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.36***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.20***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.71***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2472}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2309}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2306}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2159}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2154}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1627}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMa}5{\*\bkmkend BMa}: OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "5 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {next to health, money is most important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.40***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.35***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.27***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4.43***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.90***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.50***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.93}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.30***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.49***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4455}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2407}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4123}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2282}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2239}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1832}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMb}6{\*\bkmkend BMb}: OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "6 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {no right and wrong ways to make money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.40***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.36***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.27***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4.19***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.59***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.92}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.11}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.18}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.19***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.52***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4368}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2377}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4051}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2259}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2216}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1813}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMc}7{\*\bkmkend BMc}: OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "7 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {job is just a way to earn money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.47***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.40***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.40***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.38***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4.56***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.93***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.89***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.70**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.27*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.24+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.21**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.39*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.19}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {orthodox-christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.66+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.45***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.36***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.46***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.23***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.22***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.69***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4032}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2598}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3660}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2422}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2416}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1840}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMd}8{\*\bkmkend BMd}: OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "8 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 Excluding the Poor, Bottom 10 Percent\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We exclude those that are needy, not greedy. Interestingly (not shown) the greed variables correlate with income at about -.2\emdash meaning that poorer people are more greedy (and to a large degree needy, of course). As a robustness check we exclude the bottom 10% of the income distribution to make sure that we capture greed and not need\emdash arguably being in the bottom 10% of the income distribution and wanting more money may indicate need rather than greed. As detailed in the tables below, our results are robust.\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: more and more}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: fewer and less}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.41***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.26***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.26*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.32*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.28*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.36+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.23}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.15}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.44***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.27*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.36***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.20***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.80***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2370}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2218}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2204}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2068}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2063}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1561}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "9 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {next to health, money is most important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.11+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.11}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.35***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.30***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.31***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.24***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.36***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.50***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.76}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.33***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.29***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.53***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4055}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2294}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3723}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2169}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2132}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1746}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "10 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {no right and wrong ways to make money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.35***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.30***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.25***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.19***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.20***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.92***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.76}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.15}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.16}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.33***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.31***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.19***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.57***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3983}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2264}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3666}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2146}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2109}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1727}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "11 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {job is just a way to earn money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.39***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.37***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.94***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.65***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.63***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.68**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.32*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.29*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.19***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.19*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.38*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.23}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {orthodox-christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.15***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.44***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.30+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.39***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.46***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.18***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.25***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.23***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.78***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3685}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2461}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3313}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2285}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2280}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1738}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "12 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 Excluding Rich, Top 10 Percent\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: more and more}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hrsmoney: fewer and less}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.94***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.87***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.94***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.48+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.25+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.21***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.36+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.28}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {orthodox-christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.46***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.33***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.35***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.10***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.70***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2011}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1884}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2011}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1884}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1880}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1413}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "13 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 more hours and more money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {b5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {next to health, money is most important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.37***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.26***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7.35***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.94***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.41+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.16}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.15***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.26***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.00***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.06***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.33***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3771}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2048}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3771}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2048}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2010}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1633}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "14 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 next to health, money is most important}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {no right and wrong ways to make money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.17***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.10*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.37***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.32***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.27***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.98***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.95***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6.65***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.43+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.12}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.17}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.14***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.31***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.12}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.06***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.37***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3701}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2027}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3701}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2027}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1989}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1616}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "15 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 no right and wrong ways to make money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2a}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d2b}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {d5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {job is just a way to earn money}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 0-16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 17-34}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 35-39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 41-49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 50-59}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.06}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.08}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: 60-90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hours: unemployed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.45***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.37***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.37***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.36***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {family income in $1986, millions}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.44***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7.69***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7.84***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3.56**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: professional}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: administrative and managerial}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: sales}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: service}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.04}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: agriculure}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.25+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.22}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: production and transport}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {occ: craft and technical}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.03}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.20***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {highest year of school completed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {number of persons in household}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.13***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {white}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {subjective class identification}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.10***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {protestant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {catholic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {jewish}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.21*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {none}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.09*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.09}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {buddhism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {hinduism}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.37*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {other eastern}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {moslem/islam}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.24}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {orthodox-christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.62+}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {christian}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.14}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {native american}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.46***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {inter-nondenominational}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.04}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.29***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.43***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.72***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3279}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2126}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3279}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2126}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2121}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1609}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "16 OLS regressions of SWB: {\f3 job is just a way to earn money}" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 Greed is Good\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here are examples of biblical and philosophical quotes about greed.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Timothy 6:10\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Timothy 6:9\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and harmful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 There are more biblical quotes at: {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.biblemoneymatters.com/" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.biblemoneymatters.com/}}}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "bible-verses-about-money-what-does-the-bible-have-to-say-about-our-financial-lives/" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{bible-verses-about-money-what-does-the-bible-have-to-say-about-our-financial-lives/}}}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "#bible-verses-about-greed" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{#bible-verses-about-greed}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 {A Confucius successor saw the root of all evil in selfishness ( {Hirst} 1934, p. 332): {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \li512\ri512\fi300 The source of disorder in a State lies in the lack of mutual love.... A thief loves his own family, but because he has not a similar love for the families of others, he proceeds to steal from their homes to add to his own .... Rulers of States love their own territory, but having no love for other States, they proceed to attack them in order to increase their own possessions. What is the remedy for this state of things? . . . If we were to regard the property of others as we regard our own, who should steal? If we were to have the same regard for the territory and people of another State as we have for our own, who would conduct aggressive warfare? . . . If we were to have the same regard for others as we have for ourselves, who would do anyone an injustice \par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 The Wall Street Movie, Gordon Gecko\rquote s full quote \ldblquote greed is good\rdblquote : {\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \li512\ri512\fi0                                                                           
\par The point is, ladies and gentleman, that greed -- for lack of a better word -- is good.   
\par                                                                                           
\par Greed is right.                                                                           
\par                                                                                           
\par Greed works.                                                                              
\par                                                                                           
\par Greed clarifies, cuts through, and captures the essence of the evolutionary spirit.       
\par                                                                                           
\par Greed, in all of its forms -- greed for life, for money, for love, knowledge -- has marke\\
\par d the upward surge of mankind.                                                            
\par                                                                                           
\par And greed -- you mark my words -- will not only save Teldar Paper, but that other malfunc\\
\par tioning corporation called the USA.                                                       
\par \par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb120 \fi300 Also see: Network 1976 "The World is a business" GOD Speech scene: {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8jIw22XXSso&feature=youtu.be" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8jIw22XXSso&feature=youtu.be}}}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Regrets\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here we provide a list of the regrets people have in life.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 The major regret from {Ware} (2012) is:\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 \ldblquote I wish I\rquote d had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me.\rdblquote \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 To this point, {there is a Frank Sinatra\rquote s song \ldblquote My Way\rdblquote :\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And now, the end is near\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And so I face the final curtain\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 My friends, I\rquote ll say it clear\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I\rquote ll state my case of which I\rquote m certain\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I\rquote ve lived a life that\rquote s full\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I traveled each and every highway\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But more, much more than this\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I did it my way\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Regrets, I\rquote ve had a few\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But then again, too few to mention\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I did what I had to do\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And saw it through without exemption\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I planned each chartered course\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Each careful step along the byway\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But more, much more than this\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I did it my way\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Yes, there were times, I\rquote m sure you knew\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 When I bit off more than I could chew\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But through it all, when there was doubt\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I ate it up and spit it out\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I faced it all and I stood tall\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And did it my way\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I\rquote ve loved, laughed and cried\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I\rquote ve had my fill, my share of loosing\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And now, as tears subside\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I find it all so amusing\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 To think I did all that\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And may I say, not in a shy way\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 Oh no, no, not me\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 I did it my way\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 For what is a man, what has he got\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 If not himself then he has not\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 To say all the things he truly feels\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 And not the words of one who kneels\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 The record shows, I took the blows\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 But I did it my way\rdblquote }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 {And there are websites with more regrets, e.g.,: I wish I wouldn\rquote t have compared myself to others. I wish I\rquote d taken action and dove in head first. I wish I didn\rquote t wait to \ldblquote start it tomorrow.\rdblquote  I wish I\rquote d taken more chances. I wish I was content with what I have. I wish I\rquote d have traveled more. I wish I\rquote d have laughed it off. I wish I\rquote d left work at work (for only 40 hours per week). {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/these-20-regrets-from-people-their-deathbeds-will-change-your-life.html" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/these-20-regrets-from-people-their-deathbeds-will-change-your-life.html}}} }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi300 Apart from palliative nurse diaries, there are also academic studies on the topic. {Morrison and Roese} (2011) lists these regrets:\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 
\par Romance, lost love -- 18.1%
\par Family -- 15.9%
\par Education -- 13.1%
\par Career -- 12.2%
\par Finance -- 9.9%
\par Parenting -- 9.0%
\par Health -- 6.3%
\par Other -- 5.6%
\par Friends -- 3.6%
\par Spirituality -- 2.3%
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi300 {Roese and Summerville} (2005) is a meta analysis of earlier work on the topic: {\par
\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 
\par Twelve Life Domains
\par 
\par Career: jobs, employment, earning a living (e.g., "If only I were a dentist")
\par 
\par Community: volunteer work, political activism (e.g., "I should have volunteered more")
\par 
\par Education: school, studying, getting good grades (e.g., "If only I had studied harder in college")
\par 
\par Parenting: interactions with offspring (e.g., "If only I'd spent more time with my kids")
\par 
\par Family: interactions with parents and siblings (e.g., "I wish I'd called my mom more often")
\par 
\par Finance: decisions about money (e.g., "I wish I'd never invested in Enron")
\par 
\par Friends: interactions with close others 
\par  (e.g., "I shouldn't have told Susan that she'd gained weight")
\par 
\par Health: exercise, diet, avoiding or treating illness (e.g., "If only I could stick to my diet")
\par 
\par Leisure: sports, recreation, hobbies (e.g., "I should have visited Europe when I had the chance")
\par 
\par Romance: love, sex, dating, marriage (e.g., "I wish I'd married Jake instead of Edward")
\par 
\par Spirituality: religion, philosophy, the meaning of life (e.g., "I wish I'd found religion sooner")
\par 
\par Self: improving oneself in terms of abilities, attitudes, behaviors 
\par (e.g., "If only I had more self-control")
\par \par
}{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 
\par Rankings of Life Regrets Within Life Domains (Studies 1 and 2a)
\par 
\par Study 1 (Meta-Analysis)
\par Study 2a (College Student Sample)
\par Rank Domain Proportion (%) Rank Domain Frequency (%)
\par 1 Education 32.2 1 Romance 26.7
\par 2 Career 22.3 2 Friends 20.3
\par 3 Romance 14.8 3 Education 16.7
\par 4 Parenting 10.2 4 Leisure 10
\par 5 Self 5.5 5 Self 10
\par 6 Leisure 2.5 6 Career 6.7
\par 7 Finance 2.5 7 Family 3.3
\par 8 Family 2.3 8 Health 3.3
\par 9 Health 1.5 9 Spirituality 3.3
\par 10 Friends 1.5 10 Community 0
\par 11 Spirituality 1.3 11 Finance 0
\par 12 Community 0.95 12 Parenting 0
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl432\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 LOMS: Love Of Money Scale\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 See {Tang and Chiu} (2003):\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl432\slmult1 \fi0 
\par Items of the Love of Money Scale (LOMS)
\par Factor 1: Importance
\par 01. Money is important.
\par 02. Money is valuable.
\par 03. Money is good.
\par 04. Money is an important factor in the lives of all
\par of us.
\par 05. Money is attractive.
\par Factor 2: Success
\par 06. Money represents my achievement.
\par 07. Money is a symbol of my success.
\par 08. Money reflects my accomplishments.
\par 09. Money is how we compare each other.
\par Factor 3: Motivator
\par 10. I am motivated to work hard for money.
\par 11. Money reinforces me to work harder.
\par 12. I am highly motivated by money.
\par 13. Money is a motivator.
\par Factor 4: Rich
\par 14. Having a lot of money (being rich) is good.
\par 15. It would be nice to be rich.
\par 16. I want to be rich.
\par 17. My life will be more enjoyable, if I am rich and
\par have more money.
\par \par
}}}}
