{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was linaCommute.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.15 r1252 (released Apr 12 2017) on Thu Aug 25 09:07:00 2022
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  Public Transit Nearby? Not Happy.\par
\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\fs24 Bus Stop Proximity is Related to Lower Life Satisfaction in Cali Colombia.} \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300  \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}\chdate \par
{}{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  Using unique 2019 CaliBRANDO data, we study the effect of public transit proximity on life satisfaction in Cali Colombia. Public transit proximity is measured in two ways: having a bus stop in one\rquote s neighborhood or having it accessible within short time. Both measures yield similar negative effect sizes of about .3-4 on 1-10 life satisfaction scale. Such effect size is comparable to a decrease on one\rquote s satisfaction with her health by one step, say from \ldblquote very good\rdblquote  to \ldblquote good.\rdblquote  \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb336 \fi0 {\i0\b0\scaps happiness, life satisfaction, subjective wellbeing, public transportation, public transit, bus, bus stop, Cali, Colombia, CaliBRANDO }  \par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 {1}{white}{gray90}\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl576\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Commute matters. One may work 8hrs per day, but an additional hour is usually \ldblquote wasted\rdblquote  on getting to and from work. Residents of Cali spend on average about 50 minutes in public transit on a weekday commute, and they also wait on average 20 minutes for their bus (there is no train or subway in Cali){\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Hence, we use terms \ldblquote public transit\rdblquote  and \ldblquote bus\rdblquote  interchangeably. }
 ({Moovit} 2022). Notably, of all daily activities, commute is the very least happy activity ({Kahneman et\~al.} 2004). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 While there is much research on the commute itself (for a recent review see {Manke} 2021), proximity of public transit is an often overlooked aspect of daily commute. In the present research we focus on the effect of proximity to public transportation (bus stop) and happiness.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 There is research on transportation and happiness. Active commute such as walking or cycling is associated with more satisfaction than passive commute such as car driving and especially public transportation such as bus (see discussion in {Manke} 2021). For instance, in Xian, China, out of 8 modes\endash walk, private bike, public bike, bus, subway, electric bike, shuttle bus, and private car\endash public bus comes with the lowest commute happiness ({Zhu and Fan} 2018).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 There is little research, however, on proximity of public transportation/bus stops and happiness. Bus stops are an important feature of built environment, especially the major ones, and especially in large cities without other public transportation such as subway/metro such as Cali.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 In Rotterdam, the Netherlands, the more public transit in a neighborhood, the less happiness ({Auma and Stavropoulos} 2015)\endash one key problem with more public transit is more noise. In Detroit, the US, {Park et\~al.} (2021) finds that the more bus stops per census tract, the less happiness. Authors argue that bus stops can easily turn into crime stops\endash  the two correlate. In Xian, China, proximity of subway is found to promote happiness through walkability, transit quality, and accessibility pathways ({Yin et\~al.} 2021). In Shanghai, {Li et\~al.} (2018) finds that the closer one is to the metro stop, the more happiness. One explanation to reconcile the conflicting findings in the literature is that metro, as opposed to bus, does not disrupt the built environment with noise, light, and air pollutions. Yet {Yin et\~al.} (2019) finds that proximity of public transit in general (not only metro) is related to higher happiness across China. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Happiness benefit from higher transportation accessibility is accompanied by happiness penalty due to noise and pollution ({Cloutier and Pfeiffer} 2015).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Despite some conflicting findings, in general, having easy access/being reasonably close to public transit is rather seen as a positive thing, an amenity, a convenience or comfort\endash it alleviates car congestion and pollution and promotes interaction and walking/cycling, especially if transit can be easily accessed, is convenient, and good quality (e.g. {Mouratidis} 2021, {Leyden et\~al.} 2011). Hence, we hypothesize:\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi0 {\i Proximity of MIO: benefits outweigh costs\endash if there is a bus stop in one\rquote s proximity, one is happier. }\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi0 It is commonly lamented that much of social scientific research is done on WEIRD people, e.g., people from Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich and Democratic (WEIRD) societies. If not WEIRD, at least the bias is towards the Global North. SWB research is not an exception. Vast majority of SWB research is done in Global North.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Another limitation/gap of SWB research is that almost all the research is done at one of the following levels: person level, society/nation level, or region/province level. Virtually all SWB research analyzes person level data that are representative of (or nested within) society/nation level and/or region/province level. Research at neighborhood/community level is rare. . The present research aims to fill in both of these gaps.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Nationally representative datasets sometimes ask about certain community/neighborhood characteristics (eg US GSS or German SOEP), including in Latin America, e.g., ISSP ({Gandelman et\~al.} 2012), but the data are typically not identifying actual communities/neighborhoods, and if they do (e.g., restricted version of US GSS), the data are not representative of communities/neighborhoods. There are only a handful of exceptions, and all of them in Global North (and China): {Ma et\~al.} (2017), {Helliwell et\~al.} (2018), {Ziogas et\~al.} (2020), {Mouratidis} (2017, 2020{b}, 2020{a}), {Mouratidis and Yiannakou} (2022), {Weckroth et\~al.} (2022), {Anon} (2021), {Pfeiffer et\~al.} (2020), {Ciorici and Dantzler} (2019), {Du et\~al.} (2017), {Ala-Mantila et\~al.} (2017), {Wang et\~al.} (2019).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 To our best knowledge, there is simply no neighborhood/community level dataset in Global South (except China) containing SWB measures. The only SWB dataset representative of neighborhoods/communities in Global South is CaliBRANDO ({Mart{\'ed }nez and Short} 2020, {Mart{\'ed }nez} 2017).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl576\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Data and Method\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We use 2019 CaliBRANDO, a survey representative of Cali, conducted by the Observatory of Public Policies (POLIS) of Universidad Icesi ({Mart{\'ed }nez and Short} 2020, {Mart{\'ed }nez} 2017). Face-to-face interviews are administered by trained pollsters to randomly selected adults (18 and older). The CaliBRANDO covers: life satisfaction, living standards, socio-demographics, and notably respondent\rquote s neighborhood. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 The dependent variable is life satisfaction, and the main independent variables are whether there is public transit (MIO) in the neighborhood, and time to get to MIO. All variables, including control variables, are defined in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}. And additional descriptive statistics including distributions and cross-correlations are in Supplementary Online Material (SOM). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 We control for an usual set of SWB predictors following {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} (2018). Note that income is expressed in terms of monthly minimum wage (SMMLV). In addition, we control for perceptions of crime, security, and police presence\endash such variables are not only predictive of SWB, but may also confound with public transit perceptions and use. For instance, public transit may be avoided in certain areas, especially by women, and at night. Also note that Cali is a relatively dangerous city, say as compared to Western cities (e.g., {Review} 2020). Also, as the present study is across neighborhoods within one city, we control for two important variables that not only predict SWB, but are also likely to confound with public transit accessibility. We include dummies for 23 Cali neighborhoods (\ldblquote Comuna\rdblquote ), and we include dummies for 6 socioeconomic strata (\ldblquote Estrato Socioeconomico\rdblquote ).\par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
\fs16 \pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl576\slmult1 \fi0 \fs16 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMvar_des}1{\*\bkmkend BMvar_des}:  Variable definitions.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1  Variable definitions." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl576\slmult1 \fi0 \fs16 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2168\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql { name}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {description}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql { life satisfaction}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"On a scale of one to ten, rate how satisfied are you with your life."}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {MIO in neighborhood}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Walking from your home, what public transport you have access in the neighborhood where you live ?: MIO"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {time to MIO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"How many takes minutes from home to go to the following places walking or means of transport commonly used to go to that place? MIO"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"female"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {income}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"How much on average income?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {race}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {white, half blood, indigenous, black, or other}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {marital status}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"What is your marital status?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {education}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {primary, secondary, technical, professional, postgraduate, or none}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {health satisfaction}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Would you say that in general your health is?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {heard of crime in neighb}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"In the past 6 months, did you have heard of some kind of crime in their neighborhood?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighb not maintained}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Are there places in your neighborhood that are not properly maintained? (Batch vacant)"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {police in neighb}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"The police routinely patrol your neighborhood?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighborhood safe}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"You think your neighborhood is safe?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {safe in city}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Do you feel safe in the city?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighborhood}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"What neighborhood do you live in?"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2168\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {socio-economic strata}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"What is the socio-economic strata of your home?" 1-5 (strata 5 and 6 were combined together as there were very few respondents living in strata 6)}\cell}
\row}
}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 We use ordinary least squares (OLS). Although OLS assumes cardinality of the outcome variable, and SWB measures are technically ordinal, OLS is an appropriate estimation method. {{Ferrer-i-Carbonell} and Frijters} (2004) has shown that OLS results are substantially the same as those from discrete models, and OLS has become the default method in happiness research ({Blanchflower and Oswald} 2011). Theoretically, while there is still debate about the cardinality of SWB, there are strong arguments to treat it as a cardinal variable ({Ng} 1996, 1997, 2011). \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl576\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Most residents of Cali report having access to MIO in their neighborhood, about 1150 or 92 perc, and about 100 or 8 perc say that there is no MIO in their neighborhood. This is expected, MIO is ubiquitous throughot Cali.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In SOM we cross tabulate presence of MIO by barrio. Many barrios have a a person or two reporting not having access to MIO, and while MIO is ubiquitous throughout Cali, it is perfectly reasonable for a respondent to live in a section of a barrio that is relatively far from MIO {\i0\scaps0\b Lina, is that right? or outliers/some people may report biased opinion/nonsense?}}
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Regression results are in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMreg_miobarrio \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}. Column a1 is a bivariate regression of happiness on MIO\endash Colombians are very happy as indicated by constant term, {>}8 on 1-10 scale. But, contrary to our hypothesis, a presence of MIO in a neighborhood is associated with decrease in happiness by .3. A third of a point on 1-10 happiness scale may seem small.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 Yet, it needs to be remembered that about half of happiness is determined by genes ({Schnittker} 2008, {Lykken and Tellegen} 1996, {Brooks} 2013), and then most important are person level characteristics such as health and social relations, and only a small fraction is left for environmental influences such as built environment and bus stops.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl576\slmult1 \fi300 The negative effect of MIO is robust to the model specification in subsequent columns a2-a6{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Again, note that SMMLV="monthly minimum wage."}
, and actually increases to .4 in more elaborate specifications in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMreg_miobarrio \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}. Note the extensive set of controls in more elaborate specifications, including safety/crime, socio-economic-strata, and neighborhood dummies (\ldblquote comuna.\rdblquote )\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6211\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {a6}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {MIO in neighborhood}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.30*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.33*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.34*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.36*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.38*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.40*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.02}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.00}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.21+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.24*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.23*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.19+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.25*}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {health satisfaction}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.29***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.28***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.29***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.27***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.27***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {heard of crime in neighb}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.21+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.19}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighb not maintained}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.05}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {police in neighb}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.08}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.06}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighborhood safe}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.07}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {safe in city}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.27*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.33**}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {constant}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.83***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.09***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.20***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.10***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8.16***}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {neighbourhood dummies}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {yes}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {yes}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\cellx4045\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx6211\cellx6933
{\pard\intbl\ql {socio-economic strata dummies}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {no}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {yes}\cell}
