{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was socTraSocCapEditsForEcoSoc.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.15 r1252 (released Apr 12 2017) on Tue Mar  9 21:38:44 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  A similar effect of volunteering and pensions on subjective wellbeing of elderly{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} This study was funded by grant # 2016/21/B/HS4/03058 from Polish National Science Foundation (Narodowe Centrum Nauki) .}
 \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300  Adam Okulicz-Kozaryn{\cs62\super 1}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super1} EMAIL: adam.okulicz.kozaryn@gmail.com }
 \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\fs18 Rutgers - Camden} and Leszek Morawski{\cs62\super 2}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super2} EMAIL: l.morawski@uw.edu.pl}
\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\fs18 University of Warsaw} \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 {}\chdate \par
{}{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  We investigate the effect of pensions and volunteering on subjective wellbeing (SWB) of elderly using the latest wave 6 of Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). This is the first study to consider pensions and volunteering simultaneously as a determinant of SWB among elderly. We find that the effect of volunteering on SWB is not much smaller or indeed about as large as that of pensions. The most SWB is associated with volunteering about every week, but there is already a substantial effect even if one volunteers only about every month. We also find that the higher the income or wealth, but not pension, the lower the effect of volunteering\endash there may be higher opportunity cost for richer people to engage in volunteering. High European pensions may be unsustainable in the long run\endash we argue that promotion of volunteering is one way to increase elderly\rquote s subjective wellbeing amidst tightening budgets. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb336 \fi0 {\i0\b0\scaps Subjective Wellbeing (SWB), Life Satisfaction, Happiness, Aging, Elderly, Volunteering, Social Transfers, Social Capital, Survey of Health Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) }  \par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 {1}{white}{gray90}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Population aging will be the key issue in this century, and perhaps even in the third millennium ({Stolnitz} 1992). Specifically, there are growing concerns about sustainability of pensions and health care ({J{\'fc}rges and van Soest} 2012). The problem of aging is clear in many European countries, e.g., in Germany, Europe\rquote s most populous country, and there is clearly a need for social science research to address aging as one of the most important challenges of our times ({Vaupel and Loichinger} 2006). Amidst growing concerns about sustainability of pensions and health care, there is much need to investigate alternative ways of sustaining and increasing the wellbeing of the elderly. In present study we are especially interested in whether the effect of volunteering is comparable to that of pensions.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Volunteering has been advocated by the United Nations, American and European governments as a way to engage people in their local communities and improve social capital, with the potential for public health benefits such as improved health and overall wellbeing ({Jenkinson et\~al.} 2013). Promotion of volunteering could be an alternative strategy to sustained social transfers in an effort to achieve wellbeing. Other strategies include ( {Ferring and Boll} 2010, sec. 2.4.5): psychotherapeutic interventions (cognitive-behavioural therapy, relaxation, reminiscence), psycho-educational ones (such as social activity programmes), and cognitive-behavioural- as well control-enhancing strategies.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Better understanding of the determinants of SWB enables to evaluate and possibly reform present retirement institutions, such as pension programs, as well as potentially generate new institutions to meet the demands of rapidly increasing retirement population. SWB can serve as a yardstick to evaluate relative strength and net effect from each factor. In present study, we will use SWB to measure net effects of economic capital (pensions) and social capital (volunteering)\endash we will control for both in one model.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} We also control for other economic capital than pensions, e.g., income and wealth; and we control for other social capital than volunteering, e.g., attending educational or training course, playing cards).}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 There is a growing recognition of subjective well-being and quality of life indicators ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2016). Traditional measures of development, such as income, production, or consumption are too simplistic. They do not capture the overall progress of our civilization. For instance, gross domestic product increases when there is traffic congestion, but clearly that is not progress. But even increase in household income does not necessarily create progress if there is growing income inequality. Other important ingredients of overall development and progress such as discretionary time, mental and physical health are not captured by monetary measures. We will capture overall progress by using SWB yardstick.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Studies focusing on elderly and their wellbeing, either miss social transfers or volunteering (they do not examine them simultaneously), and they often measure only specific domains of wellbeing, not overall wellbeing. We hypothesize some degree of tradeoff or substitution between social capital and social transfers. The more social capital, especially in the form of volunteering, the lower the need for social transfers to achieve SWB.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i H}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1}):}}{\fldrslt }}
} When considered simultaneously, both pensions and volunteering increase SWB.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 Employed or low income elderly may have less opportunity for volunteering than those not working full time and with enough income to make a living. Arguably, to afford volunteering you have to have basic income. Only then you can satisfy higher needs on Maslow pyramid such as the need to belong ({Maslow} 1987). On the other hand, the high earners and wealthy have higher opportunity cost{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Oxford\rquote s dictionary of economics defines opportunity cost as \ldblquote The cost of something in terms of an opportunity forgone. Opportunity cost is given by the benefits that could have been obtained by choosing the best alternative opportunity. For example, for a farmer the opportunity cost of growing wheat is given by what they would have earned if they had grown barley, assuming barley is the best alternative.\rdblquote  {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://www.oxfordreference.com/search?q=opportunity++cost&searchBtn=Search&isQuickSearch=true" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://www.oxfordreference.com/search?q=opportunity++cost&searchBtn=Search&isQuickSearch=true}}}.}
\endash they should rather donate money than time. {Clearly, a high earner has a high opportunity cost\endash she would contribute more by working more and then donating rather than volunteering. But also so does a wealthy person has an opportunity cost\endash she could spend her time investing her wealth rather than volunteering, and then donate part of the earned income.} {Borgonovi} (2008) found that low status is associated with low SWB only among those who do not volunteer\endash volunteering might contribute to SWB by increasing empathy, shifting aspirations and by moving the reference group to the relatively worse-off.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 We think that volunteering may be especially conducive for wellbeing among less well-off elderly. If one has plenty of economic resources, one may need or prefer volunteering less and also have higher opportunity cost associated with volunteering. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i H}\\s\\do5({\fs16 2{\i a}}):}}{\fldrslt }}
} The higher the {\ul income}, the less benefit from volunteering in SWB.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i H}\\s\\do5({\fs16 2{\i b}}):}}{\fldrslt }}
} The higher the {\ul wealth}, the less benefit from volunteering in SWB.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i H}\\s\\do5({\fs16 2{\i c}}):}}{\fldrslt }}
} The higher the {\ul pensions}, the less benefit from volunteering in SWB.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 The borad goal of the present research is to explore volunteering as a viable strategy to improve elderly wellbeing. Specifically, we are interested in relative strength of the effect of volunteering on SWB as compared to that of income, wealth, and pensions. We are using wave 6 of Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE). Subjective wellbeing (SWB) is the dependent variable; volunteering, income, wealth, and pensions are the main indepenent variables of interest; and we control for a typical set of SWB predictors. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 SWB\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 A brief overview of the concept of subjective wellbeing (SWB) is provided in {McMahon} (2005), and a full definition and overview across human history is provided in {McMahon} (2006). The wellbeing concept is used in current socio-economic research (e.g., {Bilan et\~al.} 2020, {Cannas et\~al.} 2019), including research on elderly (e.g., {D\rquote Silva and Samah} 2018). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 SWB is multidimensional. Hedonic dimension is about prevalence of pleasure over pain. Eudaimonic dimension is about \ldblquote good life.\rdblquote  There is effective momentary happiness, and there is cognitive evaluative life satisfaction. There is some overlap between the two, and there even more dimensions. Notably there are domain satisfactions such as social/community, economic/financial, and social/family. In other words, overall human wellbeing or life satisfaction can be conceptualized as consisting of domain satisfactions that make up the overall satisfaction ({Diener} 2009, {Diener and Seligman} 2004, {Veenhoven} 2008, {Kahneman et\~al.} 1999, {Campbell et\~al.} 1976).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 We will use two measures that are overall or all-inclusive, as opposed to confined to a domain or domains, and are mostly cognitive and evaluative as opposed to effective and momentary: single item life satisfaction question and CASP scale ({Hyde et\~al.} 2003a, 2015). Life satisfaction is rather hedonic. CASP scale is more comprehensive and also includes some eudaimonic items as discussed in data section.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 CASP can be conceptualized as Control, Autonomy, Self-realization, and Pleasure ({Hyde et\~al.} 2003a, 2015). CASP is often referred to as quality of life (QOL) measure, however, it is probably better understood as SWB measure\endash QOL measures are rather objective ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2013, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2019). We also follow {Vanhoutte} (2012, 2014) who also considers CASP to be SWB measure.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 One could take volunteer process perspective and approach volunteering as having antecedents, consequences, but also the middle category\endash the experience of volunteering ({Wilson} 2012b). We study here SWB as a consequence of volunteering and our measures of SWB are well suited for it.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 The SWB measures, even though self-reported and subjective, are reliable (precision varies) and valid ({Myers} 2000, {{Di Tella} and MacCulloch} 2006, {Diener} 2009). \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Volunteering\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 {Wilson} ( 2012b, p. 177) provides a useful overview of definitions. Literature often defines volunteering as \ldblquote freely chosen and deliberate helping activities that extend over time, are engaged in without expectation of reward or other compensation and often through formal organizations, and that are performed on behalf of causes or individuals who desire assistance.\rdblquote  A parsimonious definition is \ldblquote unpaid help given to another person not a member of one\rquote s family.\rdblquote  The key part of definition is altruism. {Wilson} (2012b) in his review lists many predictors of volunteering. For instance, volunteering earlier in life predicts volunteering later in life and increased purpose in life. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Elderly often are an unused productive capacity. The literature agrees that volunteering is a productive aging strategy (e.g., {Wilson} 2012b, {Hank and Erlinghagen} 2009). Reward experienced from helping others is observed in diverse cultural and economic contexts and it may be part of human nature ({Aknin et\~al.} 2013). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 {Anderson et\~al.} (2014) is a recent comprehensive review of benefits of volunteering among seniors: volunteering is associated with reduced symptoms of depression, better self-reported health, fewer functional limitations, and lower mortality. The protective benefits associated with volunteering are amplified if volunteers feel reciprocity (i.e., their work is appreciated and \ldblquote matters\rdblquote ), contribute their time for prosocial reasons, and make a moderate but not excessive commitment to volunteering. Indeed, volunteering can have negative effects, especially if done in disaster situations (earthquakes, etc) or towards people in very difficult situations (Ebola, etc) ({Wilson} 2012b). It helps, on the other hand, if one volunteers for extrinsic as opposed to intrinsic reasons. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Pensions\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Many studies at person level have focused on income and found that personal income increases SWB at least with diminishing returns ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016, {Kahneman and Deaton} 2010, {Frijters et\~al.} 2004, {Kushlev et\~al.} 2015, {Dolan et\~al.} 2008, {Veenhoven} 2012). Yet, this line of happiness research about personal income tends to overlook pensions and other social transfers\endash main reasons are probably twofold: researchers tend to focus solely on income often following Easterlin paradox ({Easterlin et\~al.} 2010) and most data do not allow for fine-grained measurement of social transfers. There are exceptions, however. Notably, there is a recent experimental study ({Oswald} 2014). Poor British were given additional help from the government (training and money), they were followed for several years, and at the end, the ones that received additional money were not richer or happier than those who did not receive the help, if anything, they were worse off. Still, there is, no study considering simultaneously social transfers including pensions and social capital including volunteering.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 As a sidenote: there is an abundant literature about the effect of social transfers on SWB as recently reviewed in {Okulicz-Kozaryn et\~al.} (2014). Political scientists tend to focus on social transfers at country level ({Alvarez-Diaz et\~al.} 2009, {Pacek and Radcliff} 2008a, {Radcliff} 2013, {Pacek and Radcliff} 2008b, {Radcliff} 2001, {Bok} 2010). A popular measure is a so called \ldblquote decommodification.\rdblquote  Decommodification mostly means good pensions, sickness benefits, and unemployment compensation\endash measurement is described in {Scruggs and Allan} (2006). Instead of using such aggregate country level measurement of social transfers, we zoom in at person level.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} There are surprisingly different relationships between SWB and its predictors depending on the level of analysis ({Ashkanasy} 2011), and research implications can be misguided when taken from only one level of analysis ({Klein and Kozlowski} 2000).}
 An obvious question is how much welfare there is in pensions, i.e. how much a worker contributes to her pension and how much is contributed from elsewhere? See appendix, section \ldblquote welfare contributions\rdblquote  for a breakdown. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Predicting SWB\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Our contribution is that we investigate SWB among elderly across multiple countries using large representative samples and focus on volunteering and pensions simultaneously. Studies focusing on elderly and their wellbeing, either miss pensions or volunteering (they do not examine them simultaneously), and they often measure only specific domains of wellbeing. For instance, {Bender} (2012) overlooks volunteering and studies retirement satisfaction: \ldblquote All in all, would you say that your retirement has turned out to be very satisfying, moderately satisfying, or not at all satisfying?\rdblquote  {Butrica and Schaner} (2005) also study retirement satisfaction, do focus on volunteering (and interestingly suggest that volunteering in excess of 1k hours per year does not help with satisfaction), but miss pensions. All studies in a recent issue of Social Indicators Research ({J{\'fc}rges and van Soest} 2012) dedicated to aging and wellbeing used other dependent variable than SWB, except one ({Angelini et\~al.} 2012), which again, did not focus on pensions and volunteering. Studies that focus on SWB and retirement also either miss pensions or volunteering ({Dingemans and Henkens} 2014, 2015, {Nikolova and Graham} 2014, {Angelini et\~al.} 2012). Many of such studies are more than ten years old and carried out in the US ({Wheeler et\~al.} 1998, {Ferring and Boll} 2010). Volunteering and pensions are very different in the US and Europe ({De\~Tocqueville} 2003, {Fischer} 2010, {Alesina et\~al.} 2005, 2001, {Lipset and Marks} 2000).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Volunteering predicts SWB ({Dolan et\~al.} 2008, {Jenkinson et\~al.} 2013). What could be the causal pathway, how could volunteering cause SWB? Being a volunteer transforms one\rquote s perceptions of herself, emotions, and knowledge of the world ({Wilson} 2012b). Volunteering boosts one\rquote s self esteem, buffers against stress, and enhances mastery experiences ({Wilson} 2012b). Volunteering is argued to cause SWB ({Meier and Stutzer} 2008a, {Borgonovi} 2008). For instance, low status is associated with low SWB only among those who do not volunteer\endash volunteering might contribute to SWB by increasing empathy, shifting aspirations and by moving the reference group to the relatively worse-off ({Borgonovi} 2008). There are, of course, other causal pathways possible. And we do not focus on causality in this correlational study.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Volunteering predicts happiness among elderly (in New Zealand) and the effect is moderated by economic resources: poor benefit more from volunteering than rich ({Dulin et\~al.} 2012). And elderly may benefit more than younger people ({Van\~Willigen} 2000, {Wahrendorf et\~al.} 2006). This may also indicate that acting in a social role beyond employment is beneficial for wellbeing.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Data\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We use the Survey of Health, Aging and Retirement in Europe (SHARE) ({B{\'f6}rsch-Supan} 2017). SHARE is a multidisciplinary and cross-national panel covering health, socio-economic status, social and family networks of over 50,000 persons aged 50{+}. An advantage of SHARE is few missing values, and there is imputed dataset without any values missing (we collapsed the dataset by taking an average across categories on implicat variable). We use Wave 6 release 6.0 conducted in 2015, which has the largest number of countries of all waves. For robustness, we have also used wave 4 and obtained similar results\endash results are available upon request. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Especially earlier waves have few countries\endash SHARE sample grew substantially over time and its country coverage almost doubled. Another advantage of wave 6 is that data were collected in just one year (2015), while in earlier waves data were collected over longer spans\endash seasonality may be a problem in studies using earlier waves of the dataset.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Key variables are discussed below and all variables are listed in appendix along with their distributions and module source. Most of the variables are from the imputed module; we have used other modules only when variable was not available in imputed module. For instance, social capital including volunteering comes from Activities (AC) module. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 We use MN and CF modules to exclude elderly in retirement homes and proxy observations. We drop people who were in nursing homes ({\f5\u771\'7e} 1%): such persons typically do not have opportunity for volunteering. We also drop proxy respondents ({\f5\u771\'7e} 5%) and only retain main participants. We drop respondents younger than 50 ({\f5\u771\'7e} 2%). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 All dollar amounts are PPP (Purchasing Power Parity) adjusted. Arguably what matters for SWB is rather what money buys, not its numeric value.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 SHARE contains typical life satisfaction question: \ldblquote On a scale from 0 to 10 where 0 means completely dissatisfied and 10 means completely satisfied, how satisfied are you with your life?\rdblquote  The survey-based life satisfaction measure is closely correlated with similar objective measures such as brain activity ({Layard} 2005). We also use CASP scale to measure subjective wellbeing. Life satisfaction and CASP are correlated at .6. SHARE contains a shortened 12-item version that has desirable psychometric properties ({Knesbeck et\~al.} 2005). CASP differs from SWB: it factors in accomplishment and fulfillment, a concept related to Maslow\rquote s hierarchy of needs ({Maslow} 1987). Such measure is very relevant at older age when accomplishment and fulfillment are more relevant. CASP is widely used\endash see for instance {P{\'e9}rez-Rojo et\~al.} (2017), {Amit and Litwin} (2010), {Hyde et\~al.} (2003a, 2015, 2003b), {Kim et\~al.} (2015). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 CASP contains variables listed in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMcasp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}. We used factor analysis with varimax rotation to make CASP scale. Cronbach\rquote s alpha measuring its internal consistency reliability is .82. An index from factor analysis is more meaningful than an index simply made by adding the components: factor analysis weights components based on their fit or consistency\endash components that overlap more are given more weight.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Per CASP and factor analysis see {Kim et\~al.} (2015); per use of factor analysis and Cronbach\rquote s alpha in research see: {Senlier et\~al.} (2009), {Proctor} (2006).}
\par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0  \par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1100\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql { -0.50}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {My age prevents me from doing the things I would like to}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.52}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel that what happens to me is out of my control}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.57}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel left out of things}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.45}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I can do the things that I want to do}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.19}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Family responsibilities prevent me from doing what I want to do}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.38}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Shortage of money stops me from doing the things I want to do}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.58}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I look forward to each day}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.67}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel that my life has meaning}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {On balance, I look back on my life with a sense of happiness}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.68}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel full of energy these days}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1100\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.72}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel that life is full of opportunities}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1100\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5700
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.74}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {I feel that the future looks good for me}\cell}
\row}
} \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMcasp}1{\*\bkmkend BMcasp}: Factor loadings (with varimax rotation) for survey items in CASP scale. Cronbach\rquote s alpha is .82.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 Factor loadings (with varimax rotation) for survey items in CASP scale. Cronbach\rquote s alpha is .82." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 Main independent variables of interest are social transfers and social capital, especially volunteering. We measure social transfers directly as money amounts. The key variable, pension, is measured as a sum of annual old age, early retirement pensions, survivor and war pension, annual private occupational pensions and other regular payments from private pensions. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 In addition we control separately for disability and unemployment benefits and social assistance. It is important to separate these variables because while old age pensions should increase SWB, disability and unemployment benefits and social assistance may decrease SWB as they indicate disadvantaged status, and possibly social stigma. Note that we also control for disability and employment status. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Volunteering is measured using AC module in two ways: \ldblquote Please look at card 34: which of the activities listed on this card - if any - have you done in the past twelve months?\rdblquote  \ldblquote Done voluntary or charity work\rdblquote  coded as 0{=}\rquote no\rquote  or 1{=}\rquote yes\rquote  (ac035d1). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 The second item reads: \ldblquote How often in the past twelve months did you [do voluntary or charity work]?\rdblquote  on scale from 1{=}\rquote less often\rquote  to 4{=}\rquote almost daily\rquote  (ac036_1). We will also control for other forms of social capital such as relationships with other people: family members, friends, neighbors, or other acquaintances. It is important to think about what relates to volunteering\endash these variables may be confounders, and failure to control for them may result in bias in volunteering estimates. Variables related to volunteering are: age, lack of resources (free time), gender, race/immigrant status, education, labor force status, income, family of origin ({Wilson} 2012a, {Haski-Leventhal} 2009). We will control for all of them, except race/immigrant status\endash European elderly are still a fairly homogeneous group. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 The key predictors of SWB that we will use as controls include income and unemployment ( {{Di Tella} et\~al.} 2001b, 2001a, {{Di Tella} and MacCulloch} 2006), broadly understood social capital and health ({Blanchflower and Oswald} 2011, {Dolan et\~al.} 2008, {Bonsang and van Soest} 2012). We will also control for other predictors of SWB as suggested in the literature. In the context of present study we think that the following variables are especially important: marital status (e.g., {Myers} 2000, {Diener and Seligman} 2004), and age ({Ferring and Boll} 2010). We also think that grandchildren matter\endash they will affect SWB, and also time available to volunteering. We also follow gerontological literature in our choice of controls (e.g., {Meier and Stutzer} 2008a, {Bonsang and van Soest} 2012, {Bender} 2012, {Ferring and Boll} 2010), and while we are unable to control for retirement voluntariness, we do control for disability.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Finally, at country level, we use fixed effects to account for country-level heterogeneity. European countries are quite different and so volunteering (and other variables) mean something different across countries. Hence, we include a dummy for each country\endash it would pick up everything that is specific about given country. This study\rquote s focus is overall relationship between social capital, social transfers and SWB. In a followup paper, we will focus on cross-country differences in these relationships. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 In order to test our hypotheses, we will analyze data in regression framework. All regressions are survey-weighted using {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ [{\i p}{\i w}={\i c}{\i c}{\i i}{\i w}\\s\\do5({\fs16 {\i w}6})]}}{\fldrslt }}
} syntax in Stata. Happiness is an ordinal variable, and hence, it should be modeled using ordinal models. We will use ordinary least squares (OLS), however. We know that in case of happiness, OLS performs very well and results tend to be substantively the same as those from discrete models ({{Ferrer-i-Carbonell} and Frijters} 2004, {Blanchflower and Oswald} 2011), and OLS estimates are easier to interpret.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Per OLS and discrete models see {Gujarati} (2002).}
 In addition, some observations on life satisfaction are fractions (life satisfaction comes from imputed dataset), and we use continuous CASP measure, hence, OLS is appropriate. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 For basic exploratory models see appendix, section \ldblquote baseline regression results.\rdblquote  Here, we focus on final models including pensions and volunteering simultaneously to test hypothesis {{\field{\*\fldinst{ EQ {\i H}\\s\\do5({\fs16 1})}}{\fldrslt }}
}. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMregCw6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} For methodological discussion of beta (fully standardized) coefficients see {Gujarati} (2002).}
 we include both pensions (and other social transfers) and volunteering (and other social capital), to see how they substitute/complement each other when they both are included in the same model. We are interested in what is the net effect of each. Column c1 regresses SWB on volunteering (and other forms of social capital) and pension. Column c2 adds other social transfers and full set of controls and estimates are much attenuated on both volunteering and pension, but they remain about the same, now pension being stronger. Results for CASP are more statistically significant and have stronger effect sizes\endash arguably CASP captures SWB better than life satisfaction measure as it uses multiple items. A comforting result is that CASP models (c3 and c4) show the same patterns as in previous life satisfaction models. In full model (c4), the effect of pension is about the same as the effect of volunteering. Hence, given that CASP is a preferable measure of SWB, our overall conclusion is that volunteering has about the same effect as pensions. The is the key point and finding of this study. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl336\slmult1 \fi300 Also, note that volunteering only \ldblquote almost every month\rdblquote  already contributes significantly to SWB. \ldblquote Almost every week\rdblquote  contributes most to SWB, even more than volunteering \ldblquote almost every day\rdblquote  in c1 and c3. A curvilinear relationship is common in the literature\endash there may be excessive overcommitment and \ldblquote emphatic over-arousal\rdblquote  ({Wilson} 2012b).\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMregCw6}2{\*\bkmkend BMregCw6}: OLS of SWB (life satisfaction and CASP) on volunteering and pensions. Beta (fully standardized) coefficients reported. All models include country dummies.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 OLS of SWB (life satisfaction and CASP) on volunteering and pensions. Beta (fully standardized) coefficients reported. All models include country dummies." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\fs14 {\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs14 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2601\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3323\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4045\clmgf\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4767\clmrg\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5489
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Life satisfaction\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {CASP\cell}
{\pard\intbl}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2601\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3323\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4767\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5489
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {c4}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2601\cellx3323\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx4045\clbrdrl\brdrs\cellx4767\cellx5489\cellx5522\cellx5522\cellx1969387270\cellx1976883314\cellx1976883314\cellx1976883314\cellx1976915429\cellx1976915554\cellx1976915619\cellx1976915619\cellx-1158752749\cellx-1158730826\cellx424902\cellx446825\cellx1752887773\cellx-572452286\cellx1129547702\cellx-1295846442\cellx434333505\cellx977786544\cellx1522157078\cellx1522183043\cellx1529289461\cellx1529289461\cellx1529289510\cellx1529289510\cellx-1606379466\cellx-1606357543\cellx-447201815\cellx-447179892\cellx1417218034\cellx-1013351321\cellx739089613\cellx-1619719370\cellx209681718\cellx-2114789733\cellx-2114789700\cellx-2114789700\cellx-228179937\cellx-228158177\cellx-228158177\cellx-228158177\cellx-228158177\cellx-228158177\cellx-228158144\cellx-228158144\cellx1473969828\cellx-2009306352\cellx-357836735\cellx-357836735\cellx-349632851\cellx-349632851\cellx-349632802\cellx-349632802\cellx-349632802\cellx-349632802\cellx809522926\cellx809544849\cellx-1537142016\cellx198147176\cellx198147291\cellx198147291\cellx198147291\cellx198147291\cellx198147324\cellx198147324\cellx2050025822\cellx-426290751\cellx1492961584\cellx1492974177\cellx1492974177\cellx1492974177\cellx1492974210\cellx1492974210\cellx-1671143436\cellx-1671129493\cellx-1671129493\cellx-1671129493\cellx-1671129368\cellx-1671129368\cellx-1671129319\cellx-1671129319\cellx-511783703\cellx-511761780\cellx333595308\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700684\cellx335700765\cellx335700765\cellx1495002413\cellx1495024336\cellx-1640787232\cellx-1640765309\cellx312300780\cellx856734293\cellx-1451873083\cellx-907371734\cellx806027415\cellx1350070281\cellx-1092493459\cellx660144084\cellx1887007797\clmgf\cellx-556078251\clmrg\cellx1313803209\clmrg\cellx1321103337\clmrg\cellx1321103337\clmrg\cellx1321103337
{\pard\intbl\ql {{voluntary or charity work:}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {less often}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01 almost every month}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02***almost every week}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.05***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***almost every day}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***pension PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.04**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q! {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03** attended an educational or training course}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.08***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02** gone to a sport, social or other kind of club}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.08***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qa {0.12***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qn {0.05***taken part in a political or community-related organization}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qg {0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qe {-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qi {0.01+ read books, magazines or newspapers}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qn {0.11***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qi {0.07***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q2 {0.16***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q0 {0.10***did word or number games (crossword puzzles/Sudoku...)}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q1 {0.02+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q2 {0.02+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qa {0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qg {0.03***played cards or games such as chess}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qe {0.03***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03**}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qe {0.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qd {0.03***labor income PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qe {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qn {0.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qt {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qs {0.03***unemployment benefits PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q, {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q  {-0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q! {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.00 social assistance PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.01 disability/sickness benefits PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01 household net worth PPP \rquote 000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.04***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.04***male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.01}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01 married and living together}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.14***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.07***employed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.02}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.04***age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.36*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.83***age2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.20}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q! {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.81***years of education}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{-0.00}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.03***number of grandchildren}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q{0.01+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qs {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.02** permanently sick or disabled}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qr {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qu {-0.04*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qg {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qg {-0.03* mobility limitations}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qs {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q0 {-0.13***}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\q6 {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qB {-0.22***self reported health}\cell}
{\pa