{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs22 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs22 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was swbCityWorld-aokDec2.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.15 r1252 (released Apr 12 2017) on Mon Feb  8 11:36:15 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs22\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2520\margr2560\margt2540\margb1940\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  The Urban-Rural Happiness Gradient Across Countries\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340  \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {}\chdate \par
{}{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi340  This study shows, for the first time, that city unhappiness is common across the world. We use the World Values Survey cumulative dataset 1981-2020 from {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "www.worldvaluessurvey.org" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{www.worldvaluessurvey.org}}}. In all developed countries, without exception, we find that city dwellers are not happier than rural residents. This finding is important because it contradicts a common belief that emerged recently, arguably for ideological reasons (e.g., {Glaeser} 2011{b}, {Glaeser et\~al.} 2016, {Burger et\~al.} 2020), claiming that urban areas are happier. The effort to contravene the findings that cities tend to be less happy than smaller areas is arguably due to economics axioms: money is centered in cities (production, productivity, income, and consumption increase with population size), and therefore, cities have greater utility, so they must be happier. Yet, empirical evidence says otherwise. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb336 \fi0 {\i0\b0\scaps Happiness, Life Satisfaction, Subjective Wellbeing (SWB), Cities, Urbaniciy, Urban-Rural, Urban-Rural Gradient, World Vaues Survey (WVS) }  \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Research by {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2011) provided evidence of an \ldblquote urban-rural gradient\rdblquote  in many countries, where happiness levels rise from lowest in the largest cities to highest in the smallest places. The gradient is non-linear\emdash the very largest cities are markedly less happy than all other areas in a country, e.g.: New York City ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016, {Senior} 2006), London ({{Office for National Statistics}} 2011, {Chatterji} 2013), Helsinki ({Morrison} 2015), Bucharest ({Lenzi and Perucca} 2016), and Sydney (cited in {Morrison} 2011). The goal of this paper is to test the gradient across countries using one dataset with a uniform set of variables. This study shows, for the first time, that city unhappiness is common across the world.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Most extant research about the urban-rural happiness gradient is about the United States, Western Europe, recently China, and a handful of other countries. These studies were conducted in single countries, not using a uniform dataset across countries. The three apparent exceptions ({Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2009, {Burger et\~al.} 2020, {Easterlin et\~al.} 2010{a}) do not actually examine a gradient\emdash they all use binary urban-rural operationalizations and present simple mean differences for each country and aggregate results to group of countries in regressions. The Gallup data used by {Burger et\~al.} (2020) and {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) are problematic as elaborated later on in this paper.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The intersection of Subjective Wellbeing (SWB) and Urban Studies is an exciting area of research. Academics, policymakers, administrators, and people in general, have started to pay more attention to SWB, and not just to monetary measures such as GDP or income. This occurs at a time when the world is experiencing massive urbanization, arguably the most dramatic change to the way of life of the human species ({Wirth} 1938, {Hanson} 2015). It raises the question, how do cities affect the human condition? Do cities affect subjective wellbeing?\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Modern research on the effect of cities on human wellbeing should be rooted on the extensive classic urban sociological research ({T{\'f6}nnies} [1887] 2002, {Wirth} 1938, {Simmel} 1903, {Park} 1915, {Park et\~al.} [1925] 1984), which advanced our knowledge on the negative effect of cities on humans. Quantitative research on the urban-rural happiness gradient dates back to {Gurin et\~al.} (1960) and {Campbell et\~al.} (1976), who found a significant negative effect of urbanicity on humans. Over the past several decades, dozens of studies have concurred (for a review see {Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2015).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Yet, most research in the area examines the United States, Western Europe, and recently China and only a handful of other countries. Most studies are conducted focusing on a single country. Hence, we contribute to the literature by using a uniform dataset across many countries. In what follows, we investigate the relationship between urbanicity and happiness across the world.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 We begin by defining SWB and the mechanisms likely to link the size of a place to SWB, then discuss the literature and provide a critical perspective on economic theory. We present our model, discuss results, and conclude by discussing the findings. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Subjective Wellbeing\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Subjective wellbeing is an umbrella term for various subjective measures of wellbeing, notably positive and negative affects, happiness, and life satisfaction. Most of the SWB research, including this study, uses the life satisfaction measure, which is a global self evaluation of one\rquote s life as a whole. This measure is mostly cognitive and not affective\emdash a respondent evaluates her life as whole globally (professional, personal, family, community, etc). The measure captures everything that is going on in one\rquote s life\emdash that\rquote s a major advantage of the SWB measure over other social and economic indicators aiming at measuring the human condition, progress, and development. The SWB measure is simply the most comprehensive measure possible dwarfing earlier measures such as income, education, or life expectancy (for a review see {Diener} 2009). Following usual practice, for simplicity, we use these terms interchangeably: SWB, happiness, and life satisfaction, but specifically we mostly mean life satisfaction as previously defined.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The SWB measure is also at least adequately reliable and valid and considered acceptable for public policy making and public administration ({Diener} 2009, {Stiglitz et\~al.} 2009), and used frequently in urban research (e.g., {Moeinaddini et\~al.} 2020, {Mouratidis} 2019, {Wang et\~al.} 2019, {Mouratidis} 2017, {Ma et\~al.} 2017, {Wkeziak-Bialowolska} 2016, {Valente and Berry} 2016, {Chen et\~al.} 2015).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 There are cross-cultural comparability caveats, however, and SWB may not be adequately comparable across countries ({Kahneman et\~al.} 1999, {Diener} 2009). This limitation should be kept in mind when comparing results across countries in the present study. More focus should be on within-country differences, and this is what this study is mostly about\emdash the difference between smaller and larger places in terms of SWB within different countries. We treat each country separately and do not pull the data together. In short, one should focus on within-country differences across urbanicity and exercise caution when comparing effects across countries. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Definition, Theory, and Potential Causal Mechanism\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 This is an observational study, not an experiment, and we don\rquote t test causality, but it is instructive to discuss the potential causal mechanisms driving unhappiness in the largest places.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 It is useful to begin with the theory that defines urbanicity and predicts how it would affect SWB. We start with the classic urban sociological theory of urban malaise ({T{\'f6}nnies} [1887] 2002, {Wirth} 1938, {Simmel} 1903, {Park} 1915, {Park et\~al.} [1925] 1984): cities produce superficiality, transitoriness, withdrawal, impersonality, superficiality, deviance, shallowness, anomie, alienation, and cognitive overload.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} The classics argued that poor social ties existed in cities, but refer to later arguments by Fischer and his subcultural theory ({Fischer} 1995, 1975, 1972).}
 Sociological theory does not specify at which point urban malaise arises, there is clearly no hard cutoff point, rather, the more urban, the more malaise. There may be a certain threshold though, at which malaise intensifies as hinted by {Fischer} (1973): in the largest cities. In classical urban sociology, a city is defined by a large population size, density, and heterogeneity ({Wirth} 1938). It is clearly not a binary distinction, but a gradient:\ldblquote we should not expect to find abrupt and discontinuous variation between urban and rural\rdblquote  ( {Wirth} 1938, p. 2). Thus, we can conclude that urbanicity has mostly a negative effect on humans, and it is rather a continuum than a binary measure, although a threshold at a population of several hundred thousand where malaise intensifies may exist.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Another indication of continuity in the effect of the size of a place on the human condition comes from physics. There is a physical city constant of 1.15: if you double the area\rquote s population size, many phenomena (e.g. crime, GDP, income, patents) increase by 15% ({Bliss} 2014, {Bettencourt et\~al.} 2010, {Bettencourt and West} 2010, {Bettencourt et\~al.} 2007).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} For example, suppose there\rquote s a city with a population of 1 million and a murder rate of 10 per 100k; for a city twice as big, with a population of 2 million, the murder rate would be 11.5 per 100k, and so on.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 It is important to underscore that for over 95% of our evolutionary history{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn}  Per human species evolutionary history, for instance, see the Encyclopedia Britannica, {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/277071/hunting-and-gathering-culture" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/277071/hunting-and-gathering-culture}}}. For post-medieval history see {White and White} (1977). }
 we have lived outside of cities as hunter-gatherers usually in small bands of 50\endash 80 people ({Maryanski and Turner} 1992). This way of life only started to slowly change in about 10,000 B.C. with the domestication of animals and agriculture. The first large cities (larger than several hundred thousand ) only emerged after 500 B.C. and there were just a handful of them. It was only after industrialization that large cities started to house a noticeable proportion of the population, and only in the 20th century that we saw an urbanization explosion\emdash in 1800 a mere 1.7% of the world population lived in cities larger than 100k, it slowly increased to 2.3% in 1850, it doubled to 5.5% in 1900, and doubled again to 13% in 1950 ({Davis} 1955).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The larger the place, the more the environment differs from the habitat in which we have evolved: dense and crowded,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} There are striking examples of crowding in the largest cities. To be sure, the majority of the urban population does not live in such extreme crowding, the trend however is in that direction as cities are becoming larger and less affordable. Furthermore, even without extreme crowding, the usual population density is related to crime ({Bettencourt and West} 2010). There is also evidence that density relates to negative consequences: interestingly, there is evidence that density impacts pathology more than crowding ({Levy and Herzog} 1974). Yet, it is not only density and crowding, other factors such as social support matter as well ({Cassel} 2017). Some studies didn\rquote t find a negative effect of density or crowding and the results were mixed ({Collette and Webb} 1976). While it seems to be reasonable to assume that density and crowding are positively related, some studies do not find that to be the case ({Webb} 1975, {Rodgers} 1982). Crowding probably has become more common in recent years as cities are becoming less affordable ({Misra} 2015, {Florida and Schneider} 2018, {Weinberg} 2011, {Solari} 2019, {Schuetz} 2019, {Kotkin} 2013). For an useful discussion and overview of density, crowding and human behavior see {Boots} (1979), {Choldin} (1978).}
 airports, subway or rapid transit systems, tall skyscrapers in downtown, etc. And while urbanness is a continuum, there is a threshold, likely around several hundred thousands of people, when the built environment changes significantly. There are at least several significantly different stages of urbanicity on the urbanness continuum: wilderness, open country, villages, small towns, large towns, cities, large cities, and very large cities. Surely, it is difficult to capture urbanness in its entirety\emdash most datasets only allow us to analyze a few stages, including the data used here\emdash but the point is that treating urbanness as an urban-rural dichotomy ( {Glaeser} 2011{b}, {Burger et\~al.} 2020) is an oversimplification without much theoretical support. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The biological/evolutionary perspective can be complemented by recent neurological evidence. Urban living is unhealthy to the human brain ({Lederbogen et\~al.} 2011) and urban living contributes to the development of psychosis ({Abrahamyan\~Empson et\~al.} 2020).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Economics and Happiness\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 A few economists have argued that cities are happier than smaller places, yet, the overwhelming evidence points to the contrary ({Gurin et\~al.} 1960, {Campbell et\~al.} 1976, {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016, {Senior} 2006, {{Office for National Statistics}} 2011, {Chatterji} 2013, {Morrison} 2015, {Lenzi and Perucca} 2016, {Morrison} 2011, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2020). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The discipline of economics is largely driven by \ldblquote axioms\rdblquote  (the self-evident truths) or \ldblquote laws.\rdblquote {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} No other social science discipline has axioms, and for a good reason\emdash they do not exist in the social world, and so they should not appear in social science. See {Feynman} (1981) and {Davies} (2018) for elaboration.}
 One axiom is that the more money (income or consumption), the greater the utility (e.g., {Autor} 2010). Utility, however, cannot be measured, thus, it is often operationalized as or proxied by \ldblquote happiness\rdblquote  in the discipline{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Curiously, some economists who do happiness research are skeptical about it at the same time, and do not consider happiness worthy investigating (e.g., {Deaton} 2013, {Glaeser et\~al.} 2014, 2016).}
: {\par
\pard\plain\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3600\tqr\tx7200\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
{\i m}{\i o}{\i n}{\i e}{\i y}={\i u}{\i t}{\i i}{\i l}{\i i}{\i t}{\i y}{\u8776*}{\i h}{\i a}{\i p}{\i p}{\i i}{\i n}{\i e}{\i s}{\i s}\tab{\b0 (1)}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Easterlin (2015, 2010{b}) and many others have found that income is unrelated to happiness in the long run at the country level (the so called \ldblquote Easterlin Paradox\rdblquote ). Since these findings directly contradict the economics axiom, a few economists attempted to find evidence to the contrary. {Stevenson and Wolfers} (2013), for example, challenged the Easterlin Paradox by claiming to have conflicting \ldblquote evidence.\rdblquote  Except that they studied something different\emdash they examined a different unit of analysis (data at the household level, or across countries at one point in time) and log transformed the data. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The effort to contravene the finding that cities tend to be less happy than smaller areas is also arguably due to the economics axiom: money is centered in cities,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Production, productivity, income, and consumption increase with population size ({Glaeser} 2011{a}, 2007, {Glaeser et\~al.} 2001, {Rosenthal and Strange} 2002, 2003, 2008).}
 and therefore, cities have greater utility, and by extension, they must be happier. Research supporting this idea include {Glaeser} (2011{b}) for example, who analyzes only poor countries for his urbanicity\endash happiness analysis, but argues that the relationship holds in general. He contends that the positive relationship is \ldblquote driven primarily by poorer countries\rdblquote \emdash and leaves the impression that the overall relationship is positive for all countries and simply stronger for poorer countries. Empirical evidence, however, is incongruent: for most countries the relationship is negative and it is only positive in a few cases, typically in the very poorest countries. Concurrently, {Burger et\~al.} (2020) states \ldblquote in line with earlier research, we found that urban populations are, on average, happier than rural populations in that they return higher levels of happiness\rdblquote  and also builds his case by focusing on exceptional outliers, mostly poor African countries. Likewise, {Glaeser et\~al.} (2016) studies US counties, but retains only cities and drops from his study all other areas. In contrast, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} (2016) using the exact same data finds a negative relationship by examining all areas. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 What We Know So Far, The Literature\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Most research on the urbanicity\endash happiness relationship points to an urban-rural happiness gradient, where happiness raises from its lowest level in the largest cities, to the highest level in the smallest rural areas (e.g., {Campbell et\~al.} 1976, {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2011, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016, {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} 2020). Yet, most research has been conducted in the US or Western Europe, and there are only three cross-country investigations using a common dataset: {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2009), {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) and {Burger et\~al.} (2020).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) focuses on the effect of economic growth by urban\endash rural areas and only a small part of the study is about urban\endash rural differences in SWB, and their results are similar to {Berry and Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2009), who found that in developed countries people are less happy in cities. All three studies, however, are limited. First, there is no urban\endash rural gradient in these studies\emdash they all use binary operationalizations, urban versus rural. Yet, urbanness or urbanicity is a degree, not a dichotomy.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Strikingly, {Burger et\~al.} (2020) argues that there is a uniform way to measure urbanicity, which is a mere 3 categories: 1) Cities, 2) Towns and semi-dense areas and 3) Rural areas; yet, they use a dichotomy in their study.}
 Also, the three studies mostly present simple mean differences for each country and aggregate results to groups of countries in regressions and fail to control for necessary predictors of SWB. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Most critically, there are multiple problems with the Gallup data used by {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) and {Burger et\~al.} (2020).{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) acknowledge Gallup\rquote s limitations and attempts to address them. {Burger et\~al.} (2020), on the other hand, does not.}
 First, it is not meant for research but for commerce\emdash Gallup charges $30,000 (per year) for data access.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Gallup charges $30,000 per year for the use of their happiness data (authors\rquote  email inquiry)\emdash private corporations are making a fortune from tax dollars and students tuition\emdash scholars should resist the corporatization of academia ({Mills} 2012{a}, {Cox} 2013, {Mills} 2012{b}, {Catropa and Andrews} 2020, {Schmidlin} 2015), and the corporatization of happiness research ({Davies} 2015).}
 Second, the urbanicity classification is twice less precise than in the World Values Survey (WVS) used in the present study: 4 versus 8 categories. Third, while the WVS uses precise population size with numeric cutoffs, Gallup uses fuzzy concepts such as \ldblquote rural area,\rdblquote  \ldblquote small town or village,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote large city.\rdblquote  Fourth, Gallup uses self-reports of urbanicity, which is highly subjective and problematic in this case\emdash many, if not most people, would likely classify themselves completely arbitrarily into \ldblquote rural area\rdblquote  v \ldblquote village\rdblquote  and so forth. The WVS uses interviewer\rquote s information about the place. Fifth, apparently much of the data are missing\emdash {Easterlin et\~al.} (2010{a}) notes that in 14 countries \ldblquote rural area\rdblquote  responses were exceptionally low. About half of the world population is rural, but {Burger et\~al.} (2020) reports that in their dataset only about a quarter of respondents report rural residence. This study is the first to analyze the urban\endash rural happiness gradient across countries using a more suitable and accurate dataset. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Data And Model\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We use the World Values Survey comulative file 1981-2020 from {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "www.worldvaluessurvey.org" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{www.worldvaluessurvey.org}}}, which is representative of about 90% of the world population,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} While the WVS is conducted in about 100 countries that represent about 90% of the world population, due to missing data for the particular variables of interest, the present\rquote s study coverage is slightly smaller, covering about 70 countries (depending on the model and specification).}
 and as elaborated in the previous section, is much better suited for the study than an inadequate and poorly designed Gallup survey. The variables are listed in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}. Country codes and descriptive statistics are in the Supplementary Online Material (SOM). The SWB question reads, \ldblquote All things considered, how satisfied are you with your life as a whole these days? Using this card on which 1 means you are \lquote completely dissatisfied\rquote  and 10 means you are \lquote completely satisfied\rquote  where would you put your satisfaction with your life as a whole?\rdblquote \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Urbanicity is operationalized with the WVS variable \ldblquote {\f3 X049},\rdblquote  objective and recorded by the interviewer, not the respondent. There are eight categories ranging from \rquote {\f3 <2k}\rquote  to \rquote {\f3 >500k}.\rquote  This is an important advantage, because as elaborated earlier, urbanicity or urbanness is a continuum, not a binary urban versus rural dichotomy. We conduct the analysis using a set of dummy variables for all eight categories (leaving out the base case) in the SOM. For simplicity and ease of exposition, however, we present simplified results in the body of the paper using three categories only. In other words, this study uses 8 categories of urbanicity, and summarizes the results for ease of presentation with 3 categories. Thus, please refer to the SOM for the results of all categories.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Because in many countries, there are either no observations or few observations in the first two bottom categories {\f3 -2k} and {\f3 2-5k}, we combined them together for the analyses in the main body of the paper. These two categories together proxy a city-free natural environment most closely resembling the natural human habitat where we have evolved, and it includes: wilderness, open country, and small villages. The other critical category that must be measured based on the earlier review of theory is large cities. There is likely to be a threshold at several hundred thousand, hence we use the top category on the WVS variable \ldblquote {\f3 X049}\rdblquote  which is \lquote {\f3 >500k}\rquote  as a proxy of large cities. Such places, are the least resembling of the natural human habitat and are mostly consisting of man\endash made objects such as asphalt, concrete, glass, etc., and accordingly are likely to be the least happy. Such classification into large cities versus natural areas produces a third category in between for places with a population size of {\f3 5-500k}. The two cutoffs are driven by theory. It would be a gross oversimplification to use an urban\endash rural dichotomy with one cutoff, for example, \rquote {\f3 <100k}\rquote  v \rquote {\f3 >100k}\rquote  (or any other value). A place never changes abruptly from rural to urban at some cutoff, it is a continuum, it can be simplified to carefully chosen extreme categories, but one must always start with the continuum. Since this aggregation or simplification into 3 categories is still somewhat arbitrary, we present our alternative aggregations in the supplementary online material in addition to the full 8-step urbanness gradient. \par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
\fs18 \pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs18 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMvar_des}1{\*\bkmkend BMvar_des}:  Variable definitions.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1  Variable definitions." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs18 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2168\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql { name}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {description}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql { happiness}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"All things considered, how satisfied are you with your life as a whole these days?" 1="dissatisfied" to 10="satisfied"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {place size}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"OBSERVATIONS BY THE INTERVIEWER; Code size of town where interview was conducted"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {year survey}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {year of survey}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {age}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {age2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {age squared}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {male}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {married or living together as married}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {married or living together as married}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {divorced/separated/widowed}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {divorced/separated/widowed}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {education}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Highest educational level attained"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {income}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Scale of incomes"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {class}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Social class (subjective)"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {health}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"State of health (subjective)"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {postmaterialist}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Post materialist index "}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {god important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"How important is God in your life? Please use this scale to indicate- 10 means very important and 1 means not at all important."}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {religion important}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"For each of the following aspects, indicate how important it is in your life. Would you say it is: Religion"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {autonomy}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Autonomy index"}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2168\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {freedom}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Some people feel they have completely free choice and control over their lives, while other people feel that what they do has no real effect on what happens to them. Please use this scale where 1 means \rquote none at all\rquote  and 10 means \rquote a great deal\rquote  to indicate how much freedom of choice and control you feel you have over the way your life turns out."}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2168\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8672
{\pard\intbl\ql {trust}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {"Most people can be trusted"}\cell}
\row}
}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340 In the choice of controls we generally follow {Okulicz-Kozaryn and Valente} (2020). Table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}} lists the control variables used in the body of the paper and there are specific controls worth discussing. Young, single and childless persons and young men with tertiary education are relatively more satisfied with urban areas as a place of residence ({Carlsen and Leknes} 2019). Income, class, and education not only predict greater SWB, but are also confounded and higher in cities.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Simply comparing unadjusted means may result in oversimplified or biased research claiming that people are happier in cities (e.g. ({Burger et\~al.} 2020))\emdash e.g., there is confounding of urbanicity with higher income, education and class\emdash see SOM for tables with and without controls.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 One great advantage of city life that is often forgotten is freedom, \ldblquote City air makes men free (Stadt Luft macht frei),\rdblquote  ({Park et\~al.} [1925] 1984, p. 12){\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} It originated in the Middle Ages, and it meant freedom from feudalism: non-feudal islands in a sea of feudalism ({Harvey} 2012).}
 hence we control for freedom. Likewise, trust is important, as it predicts SWB, and it is lower in cities ({Milgram} 1970). Health is a key predictor of SWB, and the subjective health measure used here is a reasonable measure of actual health ({Subramanian et\~al.} 2009).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 We use a standard OLS regression with robust standard errors. We treat the 10-step happiness variable as continuous. An ordinal happiness variable can be treated as a continuous variable ({{Ferrer-i-Carbonell} and Frijters} 2004). OLS has become the default method in happiness research ({Blanchflower and Oswald} 2011). Theoretically, while there is still debate about the cardinality of SWB, there are strong arguments to treat it as a cardinal variable ({Ng} 1996, 1997). \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Results\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 There is a tradeoff in this study between ease of presentation and elaboration as there are dozens of countries and presenting elaborated specifications would result in unwieldy presentation\emdash additional specifications are in the SOM. Here we just present one model that is our full model. It includes all necessary and some additional controls (yet, not over-saturated where too many controls would result in collinearity and many missing observations)\emdash we use here models with controls listed in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}. The model presented here uses 3 urbanicity categories, {\f3 <5k (base)}, {\f3 5k-500k}, and {\f3 >500k}. Results are set in Table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMregression \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}. We are interested in the comparison between {\f3 <5k} v {\f3 >500k} because places larger than several hundred thousand according to the theory are the most unnatural environment for humans.\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx722\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1444\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2166\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,582}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {855}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,728}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {964}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {567}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,104}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,229}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,815}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,177}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,527}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,005}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4,795}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,596}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,428}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,487}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,401}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,572}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {887}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,056}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5,857}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,123}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {585}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,089}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,293}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {750}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {963}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,478}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,544}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,541}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4,488}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {417}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {900}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,026}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,294}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,533}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,568}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,253}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,398}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,539}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,620}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,769}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,178}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {826}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,985}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3,372}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,247}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2,039}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx722\cellx1444\cellx2166\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5,330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx722\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1444\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2166\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2888
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1,487}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMregression}2{\*\bkmkend BMregression}: OLS regressions of SWB on place size for each country separately controlling for predictors of SWB listed in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 OLS regressions of SWB on place size for each country separately controlling for predictors of SWB listed in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMvar_des \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340 The results in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMregression \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}} show that in 80% of countries with significant happiness differences across urbanicity, people are less happy in cities than in smaller areas. The only exceptions are in the East European Post Soviet countries (ALB, ROU, RUS), and in South-Asian countries (BGD and IND). Notably, these are all poor or developing countries. In all developed countries, people are happier in smaller places than in large places\emdash without exception, we find that city dwellers are not happier than rural residents. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The conclusion is that in all developed countries studied here, AUS, CAN, DEU, ESP, ITA, NLD,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Results for NLD are only in SOM.}
 NZL, SWE, and the USA, people in the largest areas have lower happiness levels than those in smaller areas.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} At least in less elaborate specifications shown in the SOM, but even in the most elaborate specifications, even when the coefficient on larger places is insignificant, it is still negative.}
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 The urban-rural gradient is greatest in EGY, VEN,{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} Note: result for VEN should be interpreted with caution\emdash this is the main difference with table exT4-3 in SOM and probably has to do with the fact that there are only 60 obs on the base case category. Other results are similar between the two tables.}
 and VNM where the effect sizes are larger than one, while the effect sizes for most other places are small to moderate, around .3 to .5 (on the 1\endash 10 SWB scale). Yet, as indicated earlier, because of the limited cross-cultural comparability of the SWB measure, when interpreting our results, the focus should be on within\endash country SWB differences across urbanicity, and not on comparing cross\endash country effect sizes.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 It is worth noting that in the first column (5-500k), the majority of the results are negative with only 5 countries yielding a positive result: GHA, MDA, PER, RUS, and ZAF\emdash again, what is remarkable is that none of these countries is a developed country.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Conclusion And Discussion\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Classic urban sociological theory, biological/evolutionary mechanism, and neurological evidence point to lower levels of human wellbeing in cities. Throughout most of our evolutionary history, humans have lived in small homogeneous groups with low density. As hunters gatherers, humans lived in small bands of 50 to 80 people, later on in simple horticultural society in groups of 100 to 150 people, and in more advanced society these groups reached five to six thousand people ({Maryanski and Turner} 1992). Hence, unlike other species living in heterogeneous, dense, and large settlements, human have not evolved to live there. Simply put, city living is unnatural to the human species. It is not city problems, such as crime and poverty, but the city itself and its core characteristics that result in lower wellbeing ({Okulicz-Kozaryn and Mazelis} 2016). In the vast majority of countries, the results show a negative effect, and are only positive in East European Post Soviet ALB, ROU, and RUS, and South-Asian BGD and IND. East European Post Soviet countries are still quite centralized where power, opportunity, and resources are located in the large cities. India and Bangladesh are curious outliers (for some discussion see {Deb} 2020). Also note that in about a third or even half of the countries (depending on the model), there is no SWB difference across urbanicity. This is also a finding worth reporting as it runs counter to the common pro-urbanism and city triumphalism claim (e.g., {Glaeser} 2011{b}). One would think that cities are the best places to live as people flock there in doves. Thus, a finding showing no difference for many cases is already surprising.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Even though coefficient estimates are small to moderate, the practical significance of the results is very strong because of the sheer size of urbanization. Even a minuscule negative effect of .1 (on a scale 1-10) on a large place versus a smaller place for a small country of 10 million people translates into an effect equivalent of making 100 thousand people go from the most miserable to the most happy level on the SWB scale 1-10. Globally, for billions of people living in cities, there is a massive amount of human misery produced. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Why are people less happy in large cities in the developed world, yet happier in some developing countries? There is at least one reason. In many developing countries, life is simply unbearable outside of the city lacking basic necessities such as shelter, food, water, sanitation, and healthcare. In developed countries, even the smallest places have reasonable access to necessities, and they do not suffer from urban disamenities. As per Maslow\rquote s pyramid of needs ({Maslow} [1954] 1987), survival and opportunity come first, and this arguably can explain much of the paradox found in this paper\emdash despite the city being biologically, neurologically, and socially negative for humans, cities can be useful for human wellbeing at the early stage of a country\rquote s economic development. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Last but not least, it is important to underscore an alarming trend in higher education, which is the corporatization of higher education and research ({Mills} 2012{a}, {Cox} 2013, {Mills} 2012{b}, {Catropa and Andrews} 2020, {Schmidlin} 2015). This includes happiness research ({Davies} 2015). \lquote The \lquote World Happiness Report\rdblquote  ({Helliwell et\~al.} 2020) and its chapter about the urban\endash rural gap in happiness ({Burger et\~al.} 2020) uses data from a private corporation, Gallup, and the report is largely an advertisement for Gallup. Gallup then sells the happiness data for an exorbitant amount {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} $30,000 per year per user based on authors\rquote  inquiry to Gallup requesting to use their data.}
\emdash arguably this is not meant for research (most researchers cannot afford it). This is incongruous with what research is meant to do, which is to produce unbiased knowledge for the sake of knowledge. Instead, the objective of this corporatization of research is to make money\emdash after all, the sole responsibility of a business is to profit ({Friedman} 1970).\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Takeaway for Practice\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Humans are worse off in cities (in terms of happiness), but sometimes what makes us happy is not the right thing to do ({Linden} 2011, {Haybron} 2008, {Nussbaum} 2005). Notably, climate change is more important than human happiness, and cities are the most environmentally friendly type of settlement ({Meyer} 2013). Also, there are some things that can be done to make cities less miserable\emdash we know what can make a city a relatively happy place of residence (see {Ballas} 2013).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \fi340 Perhaps the clearest takeaway for practice is that we suffer from overpopulation and overconsumption. It could be argued that we only need cities because of overpopulation and climate change ({Pachauri et\~al.} 2014), and not because of production, productivity, or consumption premium, of cities. In fact, consumption is already much higher than needed in the developed world, and we need less consumption ({Dittmar et\~al.} 2014, {Kasser} 2003, {Leonard} 2010). We arguably also need less production and less economic growth ({Kallis et\~al.} 2012, {Kallis} 2011, {Van\~den Bergh} 2011). While cities are the most environmentally friendly way to squeeze human overpopulation to deal better with climate change, cities directly cause climate change by being centers of production and consumption that drives climate change\emdash it\rquote s a vicious cycle. Concurrently, we would need cities less if we had fewer people (e.g. contraception, family planning). It is only when there are fewer people that we can have a meaningful discussion about the right city size as we used to have a couple of decades ago.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs22{\cs62\super\chftn} It is astonishing that there is no discussion about this. How could we have gone so wrong to think that the bigger the better and that there is no limit?\emdash cities are ballooning\emdash Tokyo has about 40 million people, and there are many cities with 20 million residents; In comparison, the greatest and largest cities of antiquity like Ancient Athens had 140 thousand people while Rome had a population of 450 thousand.}
 \par
{\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 References}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Abrahamyan\~Empson, L., P.\~S. Baumann, O.\~S{\'f6}derstr{\'f6}m, Z.\~Codeluppi, D.\~S{\'f6}derstr{\'f6}m, and P.\~Conus} (2020): \ldblquote Urbanicity: The need for new avenues to explore the link between urban living and psychosis,\rdblquote  {\i Early intervention in psychiatry}, 14, 398\endash 409.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Autor, D.} (2010): \ldblquote Lecture 3: Axioms of Consumer Preference and the Theory of Choice,\rdblquote  {\i MIT Open Course Ware}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ballas, D.} (2013): \ldblquote What makes a \rquote happy city\rquote ?\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 32, S39\endash S50.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Berry, B.\~J. and A.\~Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2011): \ldblquote An Urban-Rural Happiness Gradient,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Geography}, 32, 871\endash 883.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Berry, B. J.\~L. and A.\~Okulicz-Kozaryn} (2009): \ldblquote Dissatisfaction with City Life: A New Look at Some Old Questions,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 26, 117\endash 124.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bettencourt, L. and G.\~West} (2010): \ldblquote A unified theory of urban living,\rdblquote  {\i Nature}, 467, 912\endash 913.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bettencourt, L.\~M., J.\~Lobo, D.\~Helbing, C.\~K{\'fc}hnert, and G.\~B. West} (2007): \ldblquote Growth, innovation, scaling, and the pace of life in cities,\rdblquote  {\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences}, 104, 7301\endash 7306.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bettencourt, L.\~M., J.\~Lobo, D.\~Strumsky, and G.\~B. West} (2010): \ldblquote Urban scaling and its deviations: Revealing the structure of wealth, innovation and crime across cities,\rdblquote  {\i PloS one}, 5, e13541.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Blanchflower, D.\~G. and A.\~J. Oswald} (2011): \ldblquote International happiness: A new view on the measure of performance,\rdblquote  {\i The Academy of Management Perspectives}, 25, 6\endash 22.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Bliss, L.} (2014): \ldblquote Moving Toward an Evolutionary Theory of Cities,\rdblquote  .\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Boots, B.} (1979): \ldblquote Population density, crowding and human behaviour,\rdblquote  {\i Progress in Geography}, 3, 13\endash 63.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Burger, M.\~J., P.\~S. Morrison, M.\~Hendriks, and M.\~M. Hoogerbrugge} (2020): \ldblquote Urban-Rural Happiness Differentials across the World,\rdblquote  {\i World Happiness Report}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Campbell, A., P.\~E. Converse, and W.\~L. Rodgers} (1976): {\i The quality of American life: perceptions, evaluations, and satisfactions}, Russell Sage Foundation, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Carlsen, F. and S.\~Leknes} (2019): \ldblquote The paradox of the unhappy, growing city: reconciling evidence?\rdblquote  {\i Unpublished}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cassel, J.} (2017): \ldblquote Health consequences of population density and crowding,\rdblquote  in {\i People and buildings}, Routledge, 249\endash 270.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Catropa, D. and M.\~Andrews} (2020): \ldblquote Bemoaning the Corporatization of Higher Education,\rdblquote  {\i insidehighered.com}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Chatterji, A.} (2013): \ldblquote London is the Unhappiest Place to Live in Britain,\rdblquote  {\i International Business Times}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Chen, J., D.\~S. Davis, K.\~Wu, and H.\~Dai} (2015): \ldblquote Life satisfaction in urbanizing China: The effect of city size and pathways to urban residency,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 49, 88\endash 97.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Choldin, H.\~M.} (1978): \ldblquote Urban density and pathology,\rdblquote  {\i Annual Review of Sociology}, 4, 91\endash 113.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Collette, J. and S.\~D. Webb} (1976): \ldblquote Urban density, household crowding and stress reactions,\rdblquote  {\i The Australian and New Zealand Journal of Sociology}, 12, 184\endash 191.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Cox, R.\~W.} (2013): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education,\rdblquote  {\i Class, race and corporate power}, 1, 8.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Davies, W.} (2015): {\i The Happiness Industry: How the Government and Big Business Sold us Well-Being}, Verso Books.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2018): {\i Economic Science Fictions}, MIT Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Davis, K.} (1955): \ldblquote The origin and growth of urbanization in the world,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 429\endash 437.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Deaton, A.} (2013): \ldblquote Subjective Well-Being and Policy: Interview With Angus Deaton, Princeton University,\rdblquote  YouTube, {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tz3D-36RuLo" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tz3D-36RuLo}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Deb, S.} (2020): \ldblquote Exploring the effects of disparities on subjective well-being in India,\rdblquote  Ph.D. thesis, Rutgers University-Camden Graduate School.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Diener, E.} (2009): {\i Well-being for public policy}, Oxford University Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Dittmar, H., R.\~Bond, M.\~Hurst, and T.\~Kasser} (2014): \ldblquote The relationship between materialism and personal well-being: A meta-analysis.\rdblquote  {\i Journal of personality and social psychology}, 107, 879.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Easterlin, R.} (2015): \ldblquote Keynote,\rdblquote  {\i 2015 ISQOLS}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Easterlin, R.\~A., L.\~Angelescu, and J.\~Zweig} (2010{{a}}): \ldblquote The Impact of Modern Economic Growth On Urban-Rural Differences in Subjective Well-Being,\rdblquote  WEAI Conference, Portland, OR, June 29 - July 3.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Easterlin, R.\~A., L.\~A. McVey, M.\~Switek, O.\~Sawangfa, and J.\~S. Zweig} (2010{{b}}): \ldblquote The happiness\endash income paradox revisited,\rdblquote  {\i Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences}, 107, 22463\endash 22468.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Ferrer-i-Carbonell}, A. and P.\~Frijters} (2004): \ldblquote How Important is Methodology for the Estimates of the Determinants of Happiness?\rdblquote  {\i Economic Journal}, 114, 641\endash 659.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Feynman, R.} (1981): \ldblquote Richard Feynman on Pseudoscience and Uncertainty,\rdblquote  {\i The BBC Horizon The Pleasure of Finding Things Out Video Interview}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Fischer, C.\~S.} (1972): \ldblquote Urbanism as a Way of Life (A Review and an Agenda),\rdblquote  {\i Sociological Methods and Research}, 1, 187\endash 242.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1973): \ldblquote Urban malaise,\rdblquote  {\i Social Forces}, 52, 221\endash 235.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1975): \ldblquote Toward a subcultural theory of urbanism,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 80, 1319\endash 1341.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1995): \ldblquote The subcultural theory of urbanism: A twentieth-year assessment,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 543\endash 577.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Florida, R.} (2008): {\i Who\rquote s your city?}, Basic Books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Florida, R. and B.\~Schneider} (2018): \ldblquote The Global Housing Crisis. Scarce, unaffordable housing is not a local problem in a few places, but is baked into the 21st-century global city. It\rquote s time for cities, nations, and global leaders to start acting like it.\rdblquote  {\i City Lab}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Friedman, M.} (1970): \ldblquote The social responsibility of business is to increase its profits,\rdblquote  {\i The New York Times Magazine}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.} (2011{{a}}): \ldblquote Cities, productivity, and quality of life,\rdblquote  {\i Science}, 333, 592\endash 594.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2011{{b}}): {\i Triumph of the City: How Our Greatest Invention Makes Us Richer, Smarter, Greener, Healthier, and Happier}, Penguin Press, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E., J.\~Gottlieb, and O.\~Ziv} (2014): \ldblquote Maximising happiness does not maximise welfare,\rdblquote  {\i Vox}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L.} (2007): \ldblquote The economics approach to cities,\rdblquote  Tech. rep., Harvard.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L., J.\~D. Gottlieb, and O.\~Ziv} (2016): \ldblquote Unhappy Cities,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Labor Economics}, 34, S129\endash S182.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Glaeser, E.\~L., J.\~Kolko, and A.\~Saiz} (2001): \ldblquote Consumer city,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of economic geography}, 1, 27\endash 50.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Gurin, G., J.\~Veroff, and S.\~Feld} (1960): {\i Americans view their mental health: A nationwide interview survey.}, Basic Books, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Hanson, V.\~D.} (2015): \ldblquote The Oldest Divide. With roots dating back to our Founding, America\rquote s urban-rural split is wider than ever.\rdblquote  {\i City Journal}, Autumn 2015.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Harvey, D.} (2012): {\i Rebel cities: From the right to the city to the urban revolution}, Verso Books.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Haybron, D.} (2008): \ldblquote Happiness, Well-Being, and the Good Life: A Primer (ch. 2),\rdblquote  {\i The Pursuit of Unhappiness. The Elusive Psychology of Well-Being}, 29\endash 42.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Helliwell, J., R.\~Layard, J.\~Sachs, and J.\~De\~Neve} (2020): \ldblquote World happiness report 2020,\rdblquote  {\i New York: Sustainable Development Solutions Network. Saatavilla https://happiness-report. s3. amazonaws. com/2020/WHR20. pdf}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Inglehart, R.} (1997): {\i {Modernization and postmodernization: Cultural, economic, and political change in 43 societies}}, Princeton Univ Pr, Princeton NJ.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kahneman, D., E.\~Diener, and N.\~Schwarz} (1999): {\i Well-being: Foundations of hedonic psychology}, Russell Sage Foundation.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G.} (2011): \ldblquote In defence of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 70, 873\endash 880.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kallis, G., C.\~Kerschner, and J.\~Martinez-Alier} (2012): \ldblquote The economics of degrowth,\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 84, 172\endash 180.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kasser, T.} (2003): {\i The high price of materialism}, MIT press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Kotkin, J.} (2013): \ldblquote Richard Florida concedes the limits of the creative class.\rdblquote  {\i The Dailybeast}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lederbogen, F., P.\~Kirsch, L.\~Haddad, F.\~Streit, H.\~Tost, P.\~Schuch, S.\~Wust, J.\~C. Pruessner, M.\~Rietschel, M.\~Deuschle, and A.\~{Meyer-Lindenberg}} (2011): \ldblquote City living and urban upbringing affect neural social stress processing in humans,\rdblquote  {\i Nature}, 474.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Lenzi, C. and G.\~Perucca} (2016): \ldblquote The Easterlin paradox and the urban-rural divide in life satisfaction: Evidence from Romania,\rdblquote  {\i Unpublished; {\f3 \field{\*\fldinst{ HYPERLINK "http://www.grupposervizioambiente.it" }{{}}}{\fldrslt{http://www.grupposervizioambiente.it}}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Leonard, A.} (2010): {\i The story of stuff: How our obsession with stuff is trashing the planet, our communities, and our health-and a vision for change}, Simon and Schuster.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Levy, L. and A.\~N. Herzog} (1974): \ldblquote Effects of population density and crowding on health and social adaptation in the Netherlands,\rdblquote  {\i Journal of Health and Social Behavior}, 228\endash 240.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Linden, D.} (2011): {\i The Compass of Pleasure: How Our Brains Make Fatty Foods, Orgasm, Exercise, Marijuana, Generosity, Vodka, Learning, and Gambling Feel So Good}, Viking Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ma, J., G.\~Dong, Y.\~Chen, and W.\~Zhang} (2017): \ldblquote Does satisfactory neighbourhood environment lead to a satisfying life? An investigation of the association between neighbourhood environment and life satisfaction in Beijing,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Maryanski, A. and J.\~H. Turner} (1992): {\i The social cage: Human nature and the evolution of society}, Stanford University Press.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Maslow, A.} ([1954] 1987): {\i {Motivation and personality}}, Longman, 3 ed.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Meyer, W.\~B.} (2013): {\i The Environmental Advantages of Cities: Countering Commonsense Antiurbanism}, MIT Press, Cambridge MA.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Milgram, S.} (1970): \ldblquote The experience of living in cities,\rdblquote  {\i Science}, 167, 1461\endash 1468.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mills, N.} (2012{{a}}): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education,\rdblquote  {\i Dissent}, 59, 6\endash 9.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2012{{b}}): \ldblquote The Corporatization of Higher Education.\rdblquote  {\i dissentmagazine.org}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Misra, T.} (2015): \ldblquote New York City Apartments Are Getting Even More Crowded,\rdblquote  {\i City Lab}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Moeinaddini, M., Z.\~Asadi-Shekari, M.\~Aghaabbasi, I.\~Saadi, M.\~Z. Shah, and M.\~Cools} (2020): \ldblquote Applying non-parametric models to explore urban life satisfaction in European cities,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 105, 102851.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, P.} (2015): \ldblquote Capturing effects of cities on subjective wellbeing,\rdblquote  {\i European Regional Science Association Conference, Lisbon}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Morrison, P.\~S.} (2011): \ldblquote Local expressions of subjective well-being: The New Zealand experience,\rdblquote  {\i Regional studies}, 45, 1039\endash 1058.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Mouratidis, K.} (2017): \ldblquote Built environment and social well-being: How does urban form affect social life and personal relationships?\rdblquote  {\i Cities}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2019): \ldblquote Compact city, urban sprawl, and subjective well-being,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 92, 261\endash 272.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Ng, Y.-K.} (1996): \ldblquote Happiness surveys: Some comparability issues and an exploratory survey based on just perceivable increments,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 38, 1\endash 27.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (1997): \ldblquote A case for happiness, cardinalism, and interpersonal comparability,\rdblquote  {\i The Economic Journal}, 107, 1848\endash 1858.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Nussbaum, M.\~C.} (2005): \ldblquote Mill between Aristotle and Bentham,\rdblquote  in {\i Economics and Happiness}, ed. by L.\~Bruni and P.\~L. Porta, Oxford University Press, New York NY, 170\endash 184.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps {Office for National Statistics}} (2011): \ldblquote Analysis of Experimental Subjective Well-being Data from the Annual Population Survey,\rdblquote  {\i The National Archives}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A.} (2015): {\i Happiness and Place. Why Life is Better Outside of the City.}, Palgrave Macmillan, New York NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and J.\~M. Mazelis} (2016): \ldblquote Urbanism and Happiness: A Test of Wirth\rquote s Theory on Urban Life,\rdblquote  {\i Urban Studies}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Okulicz-Kozaryn, A. and R.\~Valente} (2020): \ldblquote The perennial dissatisfaction of urban upbringing,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Pachauri, R.\~K., M.\~Allen, V.\~Barros, J.\~Broome, W.\~Cramer, R.\~Christ, J.\~Church, L.\~Clarke, Q.\~Dahe, P.\~Dasgupta, et\~al.} (2014): {\i Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report. Contribution of Working Groups I, II and III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change}, IPCC.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Park, R.\~E.} (1915): \ldblquote The city: Suggestions for the investigation of human behavior in the city environment,\rdblquote  {\i The American Journal of Sociology}, 20, 577\endash 612.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Park, R.\~E., E.\~W. Burgess, and R.\~D. Mac\~Kenzie} ([1925] 1984): {\i The city}, University of Chicago Press, Chicago IL.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Rodgers, W.\~L.} (1982): \ldblquote Density, crowding, and satisfaction with the residential environment,\rdblquote  {\i Social Indicators Research}, 10, 75\endash 102.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Rosenthal, S.\~S. and W.\~C. Strange} (2002): \ldblquote The urban rat race,\rdblquote  {\i Syracuse University Working}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2003): \ldblquote Agglomeration, Labor Supply, and the Urban Rat Race,\rdblquote  {\i Center for Policy Research Working Paper}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 \emdash \emdash \emdash  (2008): \ldblquote Agglomeration and hours worked,\rdblquote  {\i The Review of Economics and Statistics}, 90, 105\endash 118.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schmidlin, K.} (2015): \ldblquote The corporatization of higher education: With a system that caters to the 1 percent, students and faculty get screwed. Low-paid teachers are fighting back against exploitation in public & private colleges. No more poverty wages,\rdblquote  {\i salon.com}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Schuetz, J.} (2019): \ldblquote Cost, crowding, or commuting? Housing stress on the middle class,\rdblquote  {\i Brookings}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Senior, J.} (2006): \ldblquote Some Dark Thoughts on Happiness,\rdblquote  {\i New York Magazine}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Simmel, G.} (1903): \ldblquote The metropolis and mental life,\rdblquote  {\i The Urban Sociology Reader}, 23\endash 31.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Solari, C.\~D.} (2019): \ldblquote America\rquote s Housing Is Getting More Crowded. How Will That Affect Children?\rdblquote  {\i Urban Institute}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stevenson, B. and J.\~Wolfers} (2013): \ldblquote Subjective well-being and income: Is there any evidence of satiation?\rdblquote  {\i The American Economic Review}, 103, 598\endash 604.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Stiglitz, J., A.\~Sen, and J.\~Fitoussi} (2009): \ldblquote Report by the Commission on the measurement of economic performance and social progress,\rdblquote  {\i Available at www.stiglitz-sen-fitoussi.fr}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Subramanian, S., M.\~A. Subramanyam, S.\~Selvaraj, and I.\~Kawachi} (2009): \ldblquote Are self-reports of health and morbidities in developing countries misleading? Evidence from India,\rdblquote  {\i Social science & medicine}, 68, 260\endash 265.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps T{\'f6}nnies, F.} ([1887] 2002): {\i Community and society}, DoverPublications.com, Mineola NY.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Valente, R.\~R. and B.\~J. Berry} (2016): \ldblquote Dissatisfaction with city life? Latin America revisited,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 50, 62\endash 67.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Van\~den Bergh, J.\~C.} (2011): \ldblquote Environment versus growth\endash A Criticism of "degrowth" and a plea for "a-growth",\rdblquote  {\i Ecological Economics}, 70, 881\endash 890.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wang, D., T.\~Schwanen, and Z.\~Mao} (2019): \ldblquote Does exposure to richer and poorer neighborhoods influence wellbeing?\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 95, 102408.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Webb, S.\~D.} (1975): \ldblquote The meaning, measurement and interchangeability of density and crowding indices,\rdblquote  {\i The Australian and New Zealand Journal of Sociology}, 11, 60\endash 62.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Weinberg, N.} (2011): \ldblquote How Can Cities be Preemptive and Effective in Preventing Overcrowding?\rdblquote  {\i Datasmart-Harvard}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps White, M.\~G. and L.\~White} (1977): {\i The intellectual versus the city: from Thomas Jefferson to Frank Lloyd Wright}, Oxford University Press, Oxford UK.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wirth, L.} (1938): \ldblquote Urbanism as a Way of Life,\rdblquote  {\i American Journal of Sociology}, 44, 1\endash 24.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li450\fi0 {\scaps Wkeziak-Bialowolska, D.} (2016): \ldblquote Quality of life in cities\endash Empirical evidence in comparative European perspective,\rdblquote  {\i Cities}, 58, 87\endash 96.\par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 SOM: ONLINE APPENDIX (THIS WILL NOT BE A PART OF THE PAPER\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 Descriptive Statistics\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5701\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6020\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {code}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {name}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Albania}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Argentina}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Australia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Azerbaijan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BurkinaFaso}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Bangladesh}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Bulgaria}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Belarus}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BOL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Bolivia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Brazil}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Canada}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Chile}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {China}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Colombia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Germany}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Algeria}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Ecuador}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Egypt}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Spain}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Ethiopia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {FRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {France}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Georgia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Ghana}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {GRC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Greece}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {GTM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Guatemala}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {HRV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Croatia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Hungary}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Indonesia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {India}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Iran}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Iraq}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Italy}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Jordan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Kazakhstan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Kyrgyzstan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Kuwait}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Lebanon}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Lithuania}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Latvia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Morocco}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Moldova}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Mexico}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NorthMacedonia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Malaysia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Nigeria}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NLD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Netherlands}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Norway}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {NewZealand}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Pakistan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Peru}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Philippines}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Poland}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Romania}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Russia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Rwanda}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Serbia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Slovenia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Sweden}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Thailand}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {TJK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Tajikistan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Tunisia}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Turkey}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Ukraine}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Uruguay}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {UnitedStates}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Uzbekistan}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Venezuela}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Vietnam}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {SouthAfrica}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx5701\cellx6020\cellx6888
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {Zimbabwe}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx5701\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx6020\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx6888\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx7042\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx7196
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMd1}3{\*\bkmkend BMd1}: Country codes.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 Country codes." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340 Some countries were dropped if data were missing on major categories. If there were less than 30 observations on both collectively 2 smallest categories or on top category a country was dropped. { {\par
\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3948\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4718\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5103\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5488\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5873\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6258\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6643\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7028\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7199
{\pard\intbl\ql {code}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {T 8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {743}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {235}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {198}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {74}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {187}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {195}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {201}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {134}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {261}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {120}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {80}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {140}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {142}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {160}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {254}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2880}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {404}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {420}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {440}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {469}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {698}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {621}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {779}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2681}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {164}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {232}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {65}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {46}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {61}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {82}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {80}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {272}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {60}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {124}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {271}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {331}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {342}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {128}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {169}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {437}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1498}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {781}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {371}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {397}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {223}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {289}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {156}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {246}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {103}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {133}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {178}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {247}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {348}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {318}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {917}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {111}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {61}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {252}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {251}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {160}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1063}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {812}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BOL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {423}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {101}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {71}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {254}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {109}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {378}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {701}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {72}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {301}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {340}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {539}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {835}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {852}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1740}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2814}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1321}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {490}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {537}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {372}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {410}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {762}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {693}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1145}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {141}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {43}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {23}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {110}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {702}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3466}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2206}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {237}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {274}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {126}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {373}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1812}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1999}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2139}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2568}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {16}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {48}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {225}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {358}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1053}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {910}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1476}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1940}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {784}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {825}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {645}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1279}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1373}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {601}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1147}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {996}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {190}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {364}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {278}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {456}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {544}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {549}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {92}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {132}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {127}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {144}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {179}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {301}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {916}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {553}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {119}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {362}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1464}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1143}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1149}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {504}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {313}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1072}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {307}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {328}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {365}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {451}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {433}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {362}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {946}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {729}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {98}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {108}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {360}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {291}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {207}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {691}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {904}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {71}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {FRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {246}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {82}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {39}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {48}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {47}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {85}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {67}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {387}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {742}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {442}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {138}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {151}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {189}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {49}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {309}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {682}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {159}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1541}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {238}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {242}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {374}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {139}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {156}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {237}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {GRC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {290}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {150}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {140}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {440}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {GTM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {263}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {121}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {92}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {77}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {321}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {151}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {201}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {977}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {HRV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {375}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {181}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {141}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {104}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {127}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {215}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {153}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {320}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {73}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {189}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {216}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {171}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {223}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {312}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {801}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1204}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1270}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {796}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {426}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {211}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {304}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1203}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2965}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2368}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1421}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1234}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {987}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {834}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1171}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1238}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {439}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {384}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {295}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {140}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {261}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {176}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {542}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1737}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {84}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {467}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {73}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {182}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {184}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {85}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {449}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1117}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {70}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {148}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {135}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {176}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {131}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {124}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {128}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {310}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {489}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {459}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {356}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {676}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {286}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {299}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {754}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {293}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {449}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {173}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {225}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {193}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {95}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {702}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {646}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {983}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {958}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {373}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {194}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {168}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {141}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {231}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {695}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {114}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {61}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {19}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {70}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {23}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {297}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {462}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {80}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {265}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {336}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {336}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {529}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {275}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {153}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {191}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {324}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {12}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {48}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {114}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {66}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {252}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {163}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {373}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {24}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {57}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {81}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {101}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {108}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {57}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {399}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {44}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {270}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {292}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {474}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {51}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {293}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {921}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {700}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {906}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {370}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {202}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {214}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {261}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {365}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1196}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1129}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {749}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {653}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {697}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {566}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1686}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2764}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {475}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {253}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {163}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {60}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {326}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {343}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {48}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {382}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {300}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {503}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {269}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {282}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {314}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {276}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {735}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {241}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {318}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {804}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {669}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {658}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1044}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1123}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1774}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1428}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {308}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {270}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {182}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {152}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {190}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {516}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {529}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1124}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {566}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {251}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {62}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {251}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1935}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {590}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {137}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {60}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {108}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {175}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {339}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1070}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {131}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {350}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {295}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {210}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {105}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {590}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {430}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {620}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1097}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {173}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {111}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {168}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {318}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {277}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {629}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {343}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {819}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1203}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {568}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {411}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {487}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {482}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1326}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {468}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1166}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {600}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {541}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {417}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {784}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {461}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1810}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2532}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {15}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {76}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {92}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {128}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {419}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1620}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {634}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {691}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {508}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {580}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {316}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {606}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {758}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {544}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {732}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1520}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {475}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {240}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {149}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {226}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {78}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {278}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {118}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {123}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {56}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {91}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {166}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {377}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {545}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {762}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {766}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2450}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {613}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {389}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {164}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {190}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {93}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {45}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {153}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {TJK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {360}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {370}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {80}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {70}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {90}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {30}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {110}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {73}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {468}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {669}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {429}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {251}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {252}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {191}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {80}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {96}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {12}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {84}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {48}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {264}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {230}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1273}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {408}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {962}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {527}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {178}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {327}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {294}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {305}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {806}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {912}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {99}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {129}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {118}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {229}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {493}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {328}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1336}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {410}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {352}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {357}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {636}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {960}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {746}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {972}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1168}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {440}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {40}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {40}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {60}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {260}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {140}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {40}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {172}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {192}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {242}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {242}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {484}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1008}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {63}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {708}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {736}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {784}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {190}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {94}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {966}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {154}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3912}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {218}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {194}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {258}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {269}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {238}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {390}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {987}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx3948\cellx4333\cellx4718\cellx5103\cellx5488\cellx5873\cellx6258\cellx6643\cellx7028
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {470}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {687}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {317}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {86}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {183}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {422}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {323}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {227}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx3948\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx4718\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx5103\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx5488\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx5873\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx6258\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx6643\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx7028\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx7199
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table : Counts by 8 urbanicity categories on {\f3 X049}.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 Counts by 8 urbanicity categories on {\f3 X049}." \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340 {1}{white}{gray90}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 Limitations\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We do not use the Gallup dataset. Some may argue that this is a limitation because Gallup covers more countries than the WVS. However, given that the Gallup data cost tens of thousands of dollars, we cannot afford it. In fact, we\rquote d discourage scientists from paying from their tax money to private corporations to do research. Therefore, we actually consider it an advantage not to use the Gallup dataset. Still, many world countries are missing, and using more waves of WVS data in the future as they become available would contribute significantly to the literature. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi340 A limitation is that many countries were not included as a result of not having many people in the smallest or the largest areas. In addition, cross cultural comparability is a caveat. Hence, we run separate analysis for each country and don\rquote t pool the data together, but still, it should be kept in mind that happiness can mean something different in different societies. Similarly, cities around the world are very different. The breadth of the study is accompanied by oversimplification. Some research in this area claims that urban-rural differentials might be country-specific and not be generalizable at all. Again, we would like to have more gradation at the top of the distribution, but 500 thousand is a reasonable and adequate cutoff to distinguish a large city from other places. Unfortunately, there are no other data better suited for this purpose and we do the best we can with what\rquote s available. The results are conservative\emdash if we had a cutoff at 750 thousand or 1 million, they\rquote d be stronger ({Okulicz-Kozaryn} 2015).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi340 The limitation of {\f3 X049} is not only a low top bin for the largest cities (500k+), but also the fact that about a third of values are missing. Future research can focus on specific countries using other data or WVS data using the {\f3 X049CS} variable, which has country specific sizes of places, which however are not directly or easily comparable\emdash bins differ across countries and in some cases, place is named \ldblquote major city\rdblquote , \ldblquote Farm / Mountain / Fishing village,\rdblquote  etc). \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 Cities in Developing Countries\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Cities can be actually useful for human wellbeing at the early stage of a country\rquote s development. Figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMpyramid \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMingle \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}} elaborate the Maslow\rquote s pyramid mentioned in the body of the paper. At first, one needs to focus on necessities such as survival and cities do help, which could explain why people in developing countries are happier there; Yet, it is remarkable that in all developed countries studied here, people in cities are less happy.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340  {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{centering\} ... \\end\{centering\}}]\par
}}{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb480 \fi340  {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{centering\} ... \\end\{centering\}}]\par
}}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl336\slmult1 \sb360 \fi0 Urbanicity Definition and Operationalization: Alternative Models\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We have three different operationalizations of urbanicity: the original 8 categories, and categories collapsed in 2 alternative ways. There are 4 sets of models: bivariate (with year dummies), essentially the mean difference between categories; 2) basic set of controls, necessary/important ones; 3) full/extended (the one reported in the body of the manuscript); and 4) over-saturated models, with many observations missing. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi340 The models are presented in the tables below, where the coding is as follows: T# is the type of setup: T is the original 8 categories on the urbanicity variable; T3 is three categories, and T4 is four categories. The number after the dash (-#) denotes the elaboration of the model: -1 only includes the urbanicity variable and year dummies\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 -2 adds age, gender, marital status, education, income, social class, and health\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 -3 adds materialism, religiosity, automomy, freedom and trust\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi0 -4 adds crime and financial satisfaction\par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1960}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4010}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1002}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1421}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4106}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2014}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3603}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BOL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7462}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5720}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6657}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6025}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2433}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2400}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6120}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2719}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {FRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2676}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3080}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GRC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GTM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2202}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {HRV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1152}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1649}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6092}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {11971}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3973}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2631}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1006}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3622}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2761}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2159}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {996}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1190}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2442}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9329}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2031}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2919}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1770}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3677}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3093}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5618}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3030}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4654}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3065}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2882}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4086}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TJK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4169}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2717}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5586}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3674}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2714}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT4_1}5{\*\bkmkend BMexT4_1}: exT4-1}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "5 exT4-1" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1960}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4010}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1002}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1421}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4106}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2014}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3603}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BOL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7462}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5720}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6657}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6025}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2433}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2400}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6120}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2719}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {FRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2676}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3080}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GRC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GTM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2202}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {HRV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1152}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1649}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6092}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {11971}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3973}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2631}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1006}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3622}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2761}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2159}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {996}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1190}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2442}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9329}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2031}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2919}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1770}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3677}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3093}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5618}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3030}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4654}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3065}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2882}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4086}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TJK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4169}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2717}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5586}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3674}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2714}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT3_1}6{\*\bkmkend BMexT3_1}: exT3-1}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "6 exT3-1" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2-5k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-10k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-20k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-100k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1960}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4010}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1002}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1421}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4106}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2014}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3603}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BOL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7462}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5720}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6657}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6025}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2433}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2400}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6120}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2719}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {FRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2676}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3080}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GRC}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GTM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2202}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {HRV}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1152}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1649}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6092}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {11971}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3973}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2631}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1006}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3622}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2761}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2159}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {996}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1190}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2442}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3000}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {9329}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2031}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2919}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {7807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1770}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3677}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3093}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5618}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {8187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3030}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4654}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3065}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2882}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4086}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TJK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1200}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-3.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2405}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4169}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2717}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5586}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3674}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2714}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT_1}7{\*\bkmkend BMexT_1}: exT-1}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "7 exT-1" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1864}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {955}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3895}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {995}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {636}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2562}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1637}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3394}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3780}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3320}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3823}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4371}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1806}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1652}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1246}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {952}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2459}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6931}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2208}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1233}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {639}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2427}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {953}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {889}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2740}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3782}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1559}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4628}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1131}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1122}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2343}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2683}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3966}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3999}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2432}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3128}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1896}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2387}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {901}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3593}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2511}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1111}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5575}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1492}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT4_2}8{\*\bkmkend BMexT4_2}: exT4-2}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "8 exT4-2" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1864}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {955}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3895}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {995}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {636}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2562}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1637}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3394}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3780}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3320}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3823}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4371}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1806}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1652}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1246}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {952}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2459}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6931}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2208}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1233}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {639}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2427}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {953}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {889}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2740}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3782}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1559}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4628}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1131}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1122}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2343}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2683}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3966}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3999}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2432}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3128}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1896}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2387}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {901}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3593}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2511}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1111}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5575}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1492}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT3_2}9{\*\bkmkend BMexT3_2}: exT3-2}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "9 exT3-2" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2-5k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-10k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-20k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-100k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1864}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {955}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3895}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {995}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {636}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2562}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1637}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3394}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3780}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3320}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3823}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4371}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1806}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1187}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3466}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1652}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1246}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2602}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {952}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2459}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {6931}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2208}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1233}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {639}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2137}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2427}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KWT}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {953}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {898}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {889}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-3.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2740}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3782}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1600}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1559}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4628}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {625}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1131}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1122}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2343}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2683}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3966}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3999}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2432}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3128}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1896}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1888}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2387}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {901}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3593}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2511}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3493}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1407}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1111}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5575}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1492}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT_2}10{\*\bkmkend BMexT_2}: exT-2}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "10 exT-2" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1582}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {855}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3728}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {964}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {567}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2104}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1229}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2815}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3177}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3527}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2005}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4795}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1596}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3428}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2401}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2572}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {887}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2056}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5857}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1123}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {585}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2089}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2293}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {750}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {963}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2478}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3544}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1541}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4488}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {417}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {900}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1026}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2294}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1533}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3568}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3253}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2398}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2539}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1620}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1769}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2178}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {826}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2985}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3372}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1247}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2039}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT4_3}11{\*\bkmkend BMexT4_3}: exT4-3}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "11 exT4-3" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1582}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {855}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3728}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {964}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {567}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2104}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1229}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2815}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3177}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3527}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2005}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4795}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1596}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3428}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2401}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2572}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {887}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2056}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5857}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1123}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {585}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2089}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2293}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {750}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {963}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2478}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3544}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1541}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4488}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {417}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {900}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1026}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2294}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1533}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3568}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3253}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2398}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2539}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1620}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1769}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2178}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {826}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2985}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3372}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1247}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2039}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT3_3}12{\*\bkmkend BMexT3_3}: exT3-3}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "12 exT3-3" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2-5k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-10k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-20k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-100k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ALB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1582}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {855}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3728}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {964}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BFA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {567}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2104}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BGR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1229}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2815}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CAN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3177}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3527}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2005}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1376}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4795}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1596}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {EGY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3428}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ESP}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ETH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2401}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2572}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {HUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {887}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IDN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2056}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5857}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2119}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1123}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ITA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {585}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2089}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1497}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2293}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {731}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LTU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {750}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LVA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {963}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MAR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MDA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2478}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3544}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MKD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1385}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1541}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4488}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {417}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PAK}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {900}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1026}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2294}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1533}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3568}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3253}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2398}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SRB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2539}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1620}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1769}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2178}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {826}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2985}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2017}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {USA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3372}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1247}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VEN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1034}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {VNM}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2039}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5330}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1487}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT_3}13{\*\bkmkend BMexT_3}: exT-3}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "13 exT-3" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \sb240 \fi340 In table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMexT4_2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{8}}} several places appear happier like BGD, IND, LTU, PAK, ROU, and RUS, when adding more controls and full town categories that disappear except for 4 countries.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl336\slmult1 \fi340 The results in table {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMexT_3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}} are remarkable. In most countries, large cities are less happy than small settlements. Without exception, in no developed country the city is a happier place than the smallest areas. \par
{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-10}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {925}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {958}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1254}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1154}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {797}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1175}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1353}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1832}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {732}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1157}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1434}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2507}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {947}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1124}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1443}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1225}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {692}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1811}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {390}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NLD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {408}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1018}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1142}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {793}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1323}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1665}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1251}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {981}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {922}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {822}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1308}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {465}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1179}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1478}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT4_4}14{\*\bkmkend BMexT4_4}: exT4-4}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "14 exT4-4" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {925}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {958}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1254}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1154}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {797}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1175}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1353}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1832}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {732}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1157}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1434}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2507}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {947}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1124}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1443}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1225}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {692}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1811}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {390}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NLD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {408}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1018}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1142}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {793}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1323}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1665}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1251}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {981}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {922}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {822}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1308}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {465}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1179}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1478}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT3_4}15{\*\bkmkend BMexT3_4}: exT3-4}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "15 exT3-4" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}{{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 \par
{\fs15 {\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs22\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 \fs15 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrt\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-2k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2-5k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {5-10k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10-20k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {20-50k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {50-100k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {100-500k}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {500k-}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {N}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ARG}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {845}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {925}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {AZE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {958}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BLR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1254}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {BRA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1154}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {797}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {CHN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1175}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {COL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1353}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DEU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1832}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {DZA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {732}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ECU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1182}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GEO}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1157}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {GHA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1434}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IND}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2507}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {IRQ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {947}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {JOR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1124}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KAZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1443}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {KGZ}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1225}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {LBN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {692}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MEX}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1811}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {MYS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.8}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {390}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NGA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1576}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NLD}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1448}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {NZL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {408}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PER}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1018}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {PHL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1142}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {POL}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {793}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ROU}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1323}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RUS}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1665}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {RWA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.9*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.7*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1251}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SVN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1.0*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {807}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {SWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.4*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {981}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {THA}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {922}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {TUN}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {822}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UKR}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1308}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {URY}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.6*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.0+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.1+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-1.2*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {465}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {UZB}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.5}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1179}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1445\cellx2167\cellx2889\cellx3611\cellx4333\cellx5055\cellx5777\cellx6499\cellx7221\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZAF}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {3058}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1445\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2167\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2889\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3611\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4333\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5055\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5777\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6499\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7221\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx7943
{\pard\intbl\ql {ZWE}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.4+}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {-0.1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.5*}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {0.3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1478}\cell}
\row}
}}\par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl216\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMexT_4}16{\*\bkmkend BMexT_4}: exT-4}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "16 exT-4" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
}}}}}
